# Package: astro.occultation


### astro.occultation.fresnel_occultation_filt

Polychromatic difftraction pattern by finite soirce Package: AstroUtil.Occultation Description: Calculates the diffraction pattern caused by a finite or point polychromatic source.


    
    Polychromatic difftraction pattern by finite soirce  
    Package: AstroUtil.Occultation  
    Description: Calculates the diffraction pattern caused by a finite  
    or point polychromatic source.  
    Input  : - Angular size of the star [milli-arcseconds]. Default is 0.  
    - Radius of the occulting object [km]. Default is 1.  
    - Distance to the occulting object [AU]. Default is 40.  
    - A one dimensional row vector specifies the x-coordinates of  
    the occulter trajectory in which to calculate the diffraction.  
    [Fresnel radius units]. Default is (0:0.1:10).'.  
    - The impact parameter [km], in the plane of the occulter.  
    I.e., The minimum distance from the source center to the  
    occulter trajectory in km. Default is 0.  
    - The integration grid spatial resolution, in units of the  
    stellar radius. Default is 0.1. For a point source, enter 0.  
    - Either a two element cell array: {'family', 'band'} to be  
    used with the get_filter.m function, or a Nx2 ,matrix which  
    its columns are a wavelength in Angstrom and the corresponding  
    transmission in that wavelength. Default is {'SDSS','r'}.  
    - The desired wavelength sampling rate (Angstrom). Default is  
    100.  
    - (CURRENTLY UNUSED) the componenet of the relative earth-KBO  
    velocity vector in units of the Fresnel scale. Default is 0.  
    Output : - The total intensity, the sum of the intensity of each source.  
    Tested : Matlab R2011b  
    By : Lior Rubanenko                  Jan 2014  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    See also: fresnel_occultation.m; fresnel_occultation_fs.m  
    Examples: I=AstroUtil.Occultation.fresnel_occultation_filt; plot((0:0.1:10),I)  
    Reliable: 2  
      
### astro.occultation.fresnel_occultation_fs

Monochromatic diffraction pattern by finite source Package: AstroUtil.Occultation Description: Calculate the diffraction pattern generated by a finite, non-point, monochromatic source.


    
    Monochromatic diffraction pattern by finite source  
    Package: AstroUtil.Occultation  
    Description: Calculate the diffraction pattern generated by a finite,  
    non-point, monochromatic source.  
    Input  : - Radius of the source (e.g., star) in units of the fresnel  
    scale (radius / F), where F=sqrt(\lambda d/2).  
    Default is 0.5.  
    - Radius of the occulter in units of the fresnel scale  
    (radius / F). Default is 0.5.  
    - A one dimensional row vector specifies the x-coordinates of  
    the occulter trajectory in which to calculate the diffraction.  
    [Fresnel radius units]. Default is (-10:0.1:10).  
    - The impact parameter in units of the Fresnel scale radius.  
    I.e., The minimum distance from the source center to the  
    occulter trajectory. Default is 0.  
    - The integration grid spatial resolution, in units of the  
    stellar radius. Default is 0.1.  
    Output : - Row vector of the total intensity, cooresponding to each  
    position along the occulter trajectory.  
    - Matrix of total intensity. Rows correspond to diiferent  
    point along the trajectory while columns are for the  
    various resolution elements of the source.  
    - Amplitude and phase (complex) matrix.  
    Rows correspond to diiferent  
    point along the trajectory while columns are for the  
    various resolution elements of the source.  
    Tested : Matlab R2011b  
    By : Lior Rubanenko                  Jun 2009  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    See also: fresnel_occultation_ps.m  
    Examples: [sum, M_I, M_A] = AstroUtil.Occultation.fresnel_occultation_fs; plot((-10:0.1:10).',sum)  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
### astro.occultation.fresnel_occultation_ps

Monchromatic diffraction pattern for finite source Package: AstroUtil.Occultation Description: Calculate the intensity pattern due to diffractive Fresnel occultation by a small circular object.


    
    Monchromatic diffraction pattern for finite source  
    Package: AstroUtil.Occultation  
    Description: Calculate the intensity pattern due to  
    diffractive Fresnel occultation by a small circular object.  
    Assuming a mono-chromatic observation and a point source.  
    Input  : - Radius (scalar) of the occulting object in units of the  
    Fresnel scale, where the Fresnel scale is \sqrt(d\lambda/2),  
    where \lambda is the wavelength in which the observations  
    are conducted and d is the distance from the observer to  
    the occulting object.  
    - Vector of distances of the center of the occulting object  
    from the line of sight to the source, in units of the  
    Fresnel scale.  
    Output : - Intensity as a function of the distance from the line of  
    sight.  
    - Complex intensity and phase as a function of the distance  
    from the line of sight.  
    Tested : Matlab 7.6  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Jun 2009  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    See also: fresnel_occultation_mono.m  
    Example: [I_rho,A_rho]=AstroUtil.Occultation.fresnel_occultation_ps(0.9,[0:0.1:20]');  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
    calculate diffractive occultation  
      
    FunInt = inline('exp(0.5.*i.*pi.*R.^2).*besselj(0,pi.*r.*R).*R','R','r');  
### astro.occultation.fresnelc

Fresnel cosine function Package: AstroUtil.Occultation Description: Return the Fresnel cosine function f(T): cos(0.5*pi*T^2)


    
    Fresnel cosine function  
    Package: AstroUtil.Occultation  
    Description: Return the Fresnel cosine function f(T): cos(0.5*pi*T^2)  
    Input  : - Parameter.  
    Output : - Fresnel cosine function.  
    Tested : Matlab 5.3  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Apr 2000  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Reliable: 2  
      
### astro.occultation.fresnels

Fresnel sine function Package: AstroUtil.Occultation Description: Return the Fresnel sine function f(T): sin(0.5*pi*T^2)


    
    Fresnel sine function  
    Package: AstroUtil.Occultation  
    Description: Return the Fresnel sine function f(T): sin(0.5*pi*T^2)  
    Input  : - Parameter.  
    Output : - Fresnel sine function.  
    Tested : Matlab 5.3  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Apr 2000  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Reliable: 2  
      
