# Package: VO.PTF


### VO.PTF.construct_ptf_procimage_name

SHORT DESCRIPTION HERE Package: VO.PTF Description:


    
    SHORT DESCRIPTION HERE  
    Package: VO.PTF  
    Description:  
    Input  : -  
    * Arbitrary number of pairs of arguments: ...,keyword,value,...  
    where keyword are one of the followings:  
    Output : -  
    License: GNU general public license version 3  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Jun 2019  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: FileName=VO.PTF.construct_ptf_procimage_name(ProcImagesPTF.Cat)  
    Reliable:  
      
### VO.PTF.coo2field

Convert equatorial J2000 coordinates to PTF fields/CCDIDs Package: VO.PTF Description: Look for the PTF fields/CCDs that contains a given coordinate.


    
    Convert equatorial J2000 coordinates to PTF fields/CCDIDs  
    Package: VO.PTF  
    Description: Look for the PTF fields/CCDs that contains a given coordinate.  
    Input  : - J2000.0 R.A. in radians or sexagesimal coordinates  
    (see convertdms.m for details).  
    - J2000.0 Dec. in radians or sexagesimal coordinates  
    (see convertdms.m for details).  
    Output : - List of fields/CCDs that contains the coordinates:  
    [Field, CCD, RA, Dec, SDSS_coverage]  
    where RA and Dec are in degrees.  
    - Offset between coordinate and fields centers [RA, Dec]  
    in radians.  
    Tested : Matlab 7.13  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Jan 2012  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [Field,Offset]=VO.PTF.coo2field(1,1);  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
### VO.PTF.field2coo

Find the center equatorial J2000 coordinates for PTF fields/CCDIDs Package: VO.PTF Description: Look for the PTF fields/CCDs coordinates by its ID.


    
    Find the center equatorial J2000 coordinates for PTF fields/CCDIDs  
    Package: VO.PTF  
    Description: Look for the PTF fields/CCDs coordinates by its ID.  
    Input  : - Vector of Field IDs.  
    - Vector of CCD IDs. If empty then will return the Field center.  
    Output : - Vector of J2000.0 RA for fields.  
    - Vector of J2000.0 Dec for fields.  
    Tested : Matlab 7.13  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Sep 2016  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [RA,Dec]=VO.PTF.field2coo(1000,1);  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
### VO.PTF.filename_info

Get information from PTF file name Package: VO.PTF Description: Get information from the IPAC PTF file name construct.


    
    Get information from PTF file name  
    Package: VO.PTF  
    Description: Get information from the IPAC PTF file name construct.  
    Input  : - List of IPAC PTF FITS images (see create_list.m for options).  
    Default is '*.fits'.  
    Output : - Info structure containing the extracted information for  
    each image. The following fields are available:  
    .Day  
    .Month  
    .Year  
    .FracDay  
    .JD  
    .ProductType  
    .ProcLevel  
    .ImType  
    .FilterID  
    .FilterName  
    .FieldID  
    .CCDID  
    .ID   - processed image ID  
    Tested : Matlab 7.10  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Sep 2010  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: Info=VO.PTF.filename_info('PTF_201209044888_c_p_scie_t114355_u013981212_f12_p002197_c04.ctlg');  
    Reliable: 2  
    -  
### VO.PTF.pixscale

Get PTF pixel scale Package: VO.PTF Description: Return PTF pixel scale.


    
    Get PTF pixel scale  
    Package: VO.PTF  
    Description: Return PTF pixel scale.  
    Input  : null  
    Output : - Pixel scale [arcsec/pix].  
    Example: VO.PTF.pixscale  
    Reliable: 2  
      
### VO.PTF.ptf_image2sim

Load PTF fits images and catalogs into a SIM object Package: VO.PTF Description: Load PTF fits images and catalogs into a SIM object. The catalog names are constructed from the file names.


    
    Load PTF fits images and catalogs into a SIM object  
    Package: VO.PTF  
    Description: Load PTF fits images and catalogs into a SIM object.  
    The catalog names are constructed from the file names.  
    Either sextractor or daophot catalogs can be loaded.  
    Input  : - List of fits file to load. See io.files.create_list for  
    options.  
    - Catalog type. If empty, do not load catalog.  
    If 'daophot' then attempt to load daophot catalog.  
    If sex' then attempt to load sextractor catalog.  
    Default is empty.  
    Output : - A SIM object with the images and catalogs.  
    License: GNU general public license version 3  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Mar 2017  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: Sim=VO.PTF.ptf_image2sim('PTF*.fits','daophot')  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
### VO.PTF.read_mark_lc

Read PTF subtraction light curves generated by Mark S. program. Package: VO.PTF Description: Read PTF subtraction light curves generated by Mark S. program.


    
    Read PTF subtraction light curves generated by Mark S. program.  
    Package: VO.PTF  
    Description: Read PTF subtraction light curves generated by Mark S. program.  
    Input  : - File.  
    - Binning vector [MJD]. This is a column vector of edges defines  
    the bins.  
    Alternatively, a two column vector in which the first (second)  
    column is for the start (end) time of each bin.  
    - In addition to a predefined bins, the program can calculate  
    the light curve in a constant bins of either constant  
    Number of points or constant time span.  
    BinType can be:  
    'Time' - for constant time span.  
    'Num'  - for constant number of points.  
    - Time span or number of points in bins.  
    - Randomize the data points (i.e., assign random dates),  
    {true|false}. Default is false.  
    - A flag indicating if to remove lines with the same exact JD.  
    Default is true.  
    Output : - Light curve [MJD, Mag, MagErr, 3sigma limit, Flux, Flux error]  
    - Zero point  
    - Binned light curve, in the pre-defined bins defined  
    in BinVec. The matrix contains the following columns:  
    (1) Mean time [MJD]  
    (2) Err Time low [day]  
    (3) Err Time up [day]  
    (4) Number of observations  
    (5) Mag  
    (6) Mag Err  
    (7) Mag limit  
    (8) median Flux  
    (9) Flux Err  
    (10) Mag Err derived by bootstrap simulations  
    (11) Flux Err derived by bootstrap simulations  
    - Binned light curve in the constant number/time-span bins.  
    The matrix contains the following columns:  
    (1) Mid time  
    (2) Median flux in bin.  
    (3) Std of flux in bin divided by the number of points in bin.  
    (4) Median flux error in bin.  
    (5) Number of measurements in bin.  
    (6) Bootstrap Std of flux in bin.  
    (7) Jackknife Std of flux in bin.  
    Tested : Matlab 7.13  
    By : Eran O. Ofek / Aviram Steinbok  Apr 2012  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    -  
      
### VO.PTF.wget_corrim

Get PTF corrected images from the IPAC archive Package: VO.PTF Description:  Given coordinates or PTF field+CCDID, get the link to the images and associated catalogs and mask files. The program


    
    Get PTF corrected images from the IPAC archive  
    Package: VO.PTF  
    Description:  Given coordinates or PTF field+CCDID, get the link to the  
    images and associated catalogs and mask files. The program  
    can also retrieve the files.  
    Input  : - J2000.0 RA in [rad] or [H M S] or sexagesimal string.  
    Alternatively, if the second argument is an empty matrix then  
    then the first input argument will be regarded as  
    [FieldID CCDID].  
    - J2000.0 Dec in [rad] or [Sign D M S] or sexagesimal string.  
    Alternatively, if this is an empty matrix then the first  
    argument is [FieldID CCDID].  
    Spatial queries (search by RA,Dec): return images that are  
    related to a search region (specified via the POS and SIZE  
    parameters) according to a spatial predicate (specified via  
    the INTERSECT parameter).  
    * Arbitrary number of pairs of ...,keyword,value,...  
    The following keywords are available:  
    'SIZE'  - [width[,height]]  
    (e.g., 'SIZE', 0.1  or  'SIZE', [0.1, 0.2]).  
    The SIZE parameter consists of one or two values in  
    decimal degrees. The first SIZE value is taken to be  
    the full-width of the search region along the east  
    axis at POS, and the second is taken to be the  
    full-height along the north axis.  
    If only one size value is specified, it is used as  
    both the full-width and full-height. Negative sizes  
    are illegal, and a width and height of zero indicate  
    that the search region is a point.  
    Default is 0.  
    If INTERSECT=CENTER (see below), SIZE is ignored.  
    'Inetesect'- Specify the spatial search method.  
    Allowed values are:  
    'Covers' - X must completely contain S.  
    Equivalent to CENTER and OVERLAPS  
    if S is a point.  
    'Enclosed'-S must completely contain X. If S is  
    a point, the query will always return  
    an empty image table.  
    'Center'  -X must contain the center of S. If S  
    is a point, this is equivalent to  
    COVERS and OVERLAPS.  
    'Overlaps'-The intersection of S and X is  
    non-empty. If S is a point, this is  
    equivalent to CENTER and COVERS.  
    Default is 'Overlaps'.  
    'JD' - Return results only in the specified JD range  
    [min_JD, max_JD]. If single value is given then  
    max_JD will be set to Inf.  
    'Filter' - Cell array of filters. Return only specified  
    filters. Default is all filters.  
    'Seeing' - Return only images which seeing is in the  
    specified range [minSeeing, maxSeeing].  
    If single value is given then minSeeing is 0.  
    Default is [0 Inf].  
    'Save'   - Combination of chracter that specifiy which files  
    to save.  
    'i' - corrected images.  
    'm' - mask files.  
    'c' - catalogs.  
    'p' - psf phot catalog  
    'none' - do not save.  
    e.g., 'i' or 'im'. Default is 'ic'.  
    'MaxGet' - Number of files to download in parallel.  
    Default is 5.  
    'Extra'  - A string of extra parameters to pass to the wget  
    command. See www.pwget.m for options.  
    Default is '-q -nc'.  
    'User'   - User name, or cell array containg path for  
    user/pass information.  
    'Pass'   - User password. If empty use user/pass info.  
    Default is empty.  
    Output : - Struct array of all the files found.  
    The following fields are available:  
    .JD      - Julian day  
    .seeing  - seeing  
    .filter  - filter  
    .Image   - Link to image.  
    .Mask    - Link to mask file.  
    .Cat     - Link to catalog  
    - A cell array of the IPAC table returned by specified search.  
    - Structure in which each field contains the column index in  
    the IPAC table.  
    - A structure with the following fields:  
    .Files_Image - Cell array of downloaded images.  
    .Files_Mask  - Cell array of downloaded masks.  
    .Files_Cat   - Cell array of downloaded catalogs.  
    Tested : Matlab R2013b  
    By : Yifat Dzigan                    Jan 2013  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Examples:  
    To retrive the Table and the Link to the images run with Save','none':  
    [Link,TableSort,Col,Filename]=VO.PTF.wget_corrim([100019 0],[], 'Save','none');  
    To search with Ra, Dec:  
    [Link,TableSort,Col,Filename]=VO.PTF.wget_corrim(RA,DEC,'Filter',{'ha663','ha656'},'intersect','OVERLAPS','SIZE',[0.2,0.1],'save','im', 'MaxGet',15)  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
      
      
      
