# Class: AstroSpec

### AstroSpec

constructor for AstroSpec


### applyExtinctionZ

Calculate extinction to observed wavelngth vector in various redshifts.


### blackBody

Create an AstroSpec object with black body spectra Return specific (per Ang) luminosity or emittence.


### filterFun

Apply a 1-D function (filter) on the Flux field in AstroSpec object. The function do not check if the wavelength is equally spaced. The function operates on the Flux, FluxErr, and Back fields.


### fitSpec

UNDER CONSTRUCTION


### funFlux

Apply a function to the Flux, FluxErr, Back columns.


### get.Back

getter for Back


### get.Flux

getter for Flux


### get.FluxErr

getter for FluxErr


### get.FluxUnits

getter for FluxUnits


### get.Mask

getter for Mask data


### get.Wave

getter for Wave


### get.WaveUnits

getter for WaveUnits


### interp1

Interpolate the elements of AstroSpec into a new wavelength grid. The Mask will be interpolated using nearest interpolation. This function works only if the Data is convertable to a numeric matrix.


### interpAndKeepOverlap

Given two AstroSpec objects, interpolate the first into the wavelength grid defined by the second and keep only the overlaping points.


### interpLogSpace

Interpolate an AstroSpec object into a logarithmic wavelength grid.


### interpOverNan

Interpolate AstroSpec object over NaNs.


### interpOverRanges

Interpolate AstroSpec object over some ranges Useful for interpolation over ranges containing spectral lines.


### length

Return length of each spectrum in AstroSpec object


### plot

Plot all the spectra in an AstroSpec object


### read2FilterMatrix

Convet a filter name/AstFilter to cell of transmissions


### redshift

Apply redshift to a spectrum Divide wave by (1+z) and multiply flux by (1+z) Correct also FluxErr and Back


### selectWave

Select lines from AstroSpec (don't generate a new copy)


### set.Back

setter for Back


### set.Flux

setter for Flux


### set.FluxErr

setter for FluxErr


### set.FluxUnits

setter for FluxUnits


### set.Mask

setter for Mask data


### set.Wave

setter for Wave


### set.WaveUnits

setter for WaveUnits


### sort

Sort elements of AstroSpec object by wavelength


### synphot

Synthetic photometry on an AstroSpec object spectra


### synspecGAIA

Load GAIA synthetic spectra and if necessey interpolate over Temperature (other parameters are not interpolated).


### unitTest

unitTest for AstroSpec


