# Class: Base



    
    Component base class  
    This is the base class from which all the classes in AstroPack hinerits.  
      
    Functionality:  
    copyProp - Copy specific properyies from one object to another  
      
      
      
      
      
    Making a DEEP Copy: Copy each property value and assign it to the new  
    (copied) property. Recursively copy property values that reference handle  
    objects to copy all of the underlying data.  
      
    Making a SHALLOW Copy: Copy each property value and assign it to the new  
    (copied) property. If a property value is a handle, copy the handle but  
    not the underlying data.  
      
    https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/matlab.mixin.copyable-class.html  
    < matlab.mixin.Copyable  
      
    Notes:  
    Singleton: In software engineering, the singleton pattern is a software  
    design pattern that restricts the instantiation of a class to one  
    "single" instance. This is useful when exactly one object is needed  
    to coordinate actions across the system.  
      
      
      
    Consider using HandleCompatible to allow inheritace by both handle  
    and value classes:  
      
    https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/matlab_oop/supporting-both-handle-and-value-subclasses-handlecompatible.html  
    https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/matlab_oop/how-to-define-handle-compatible-classes-1.html  
      

### Functions List

    Base - Constructor
    copyElement - Custom copy of object properties Called from copy() of matlab.mixin.Copyable decendents
    copyProp - Copy the content of properties from Obj into Target.
    createNewObj - A utility function for creation of an object new copy based on nargout
    openMLX - added by O.S., opens the MLX of the class, Run by using: classname.empty.openMLX
    setProps - Copy fields of struct Args to class properties, non-existing properties are ignored Return number of fields copied
    unitTest - Base.unitTest

### Base

Constructor


    
    Constructor  


### copyElement

Custom copy of object properties Called from copy() of matlab.mixin.Copyable decendents


    
    Custom copy of object properties  
    Called from copy() of matlab.mixin.Copyable decendents  
      
    Make shallow copy of all properties  


### copyProp

Copy the content of properties from Obj into Target.


    
    Copy the content of properties from Obj into Target.  
    Input  : - Obj (from which to copy)  
    - Target object  
    - A cell array or a string array of properties to copy.  
    Output : - Target object  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Apr 2021)  
    Example: Obj2 = copyProp(Obj1, Obj2, {'UserData'})  
      
    Convert to cellarray  


### createNewObj

A utility function for creation of an object new copy based on nargout


    
    A utility function for creation of an object new copy based  
    on nargout  
    Input  : - An object  
    - [], true, false.  
    If true, create new deep copy  
    If false, return pointer to object  
    If [] and Nargout0 then do not create new copy.  
    Otherwise, create new copy.  
    - nargout of function.  
    - Number of nargout above (>) which to create new  
    object. Default is 0.  
    Output : - The object (pointer or deep copy).  
    - The new value of the CreateNewObj argument  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Jul 2021)  
    Example: [Result, CreateNewObj] = createNewObj(Obj, CreateNewObj, Nargout)  
      


### openMLX

added by O.S., opens the MLX of the class, Run by using: classname.empty.openMLX


    
    added by O.S., opens the MLX of the class, Run by using:  
    classname.empty.openMLX  


### setProps

Copy fields of struct Args to class properties, non-existing properties are ignored Return number of fields copied


    
    Copy fields of struct Args to class properties, non-existing properties are ignored  
    Return number of fields copied  


### unitTest

Base.unitTest


    
    Base.unitTest  
      


