# Class: BitDictionary



    
    A BitDictionary class  
    Description: A class to support storage/read/write of bit dictionaries  
    including basic conversions between bit names, indices and  
    decimal representations.  
    Author: Eran Ofek (March 2021)  
    Example: BD=BitDictionary; D.unitTest  
      
### BitDictionary

Dictionary constructor


    
    Dictionary constructor  
    Input  : Dictionary file name to load. Default is ''.  
    Example: BD=BitDictionary('BitMask.Image.Default')  
      
### bitdec2name

Convert decimal numbers to bit names and indices


    
    Convert decimal numbers to bit names and indices  
    Input  : - A single element BitDictionary object.  
    - An array of decimal values (DecVal).  
    Output : - A cell array of cell array of bit names.  
    Each cell elements corresponds to an element in  
    the input DecVal array.  
    - A cell array of cell array of bit descritions.  
    - A cell array of bit indices.  
    Example: [BitName,BitDesc,BitInd]=bitdec2name(Obj,[3,1,2^11+7; 1 1 1])  
      
### bitind2name

Convert an array of bit indices to bit names


    
    Convert an array of bit indices to bit names  
    Input  : - A single element BitDictionary object  
    - An array of bit indices (i.e., the running number of the  
    bit in the dictionary).  
    * ...,key,val,...  
    'NotExist' - ['nan'] | 'fail'. Indicating what to  
    do if the bit index is out of range.  
    'nan' will return NaN, 'fail' will produce  
    an error.  
    Output : - A cell array f bit names (same size as BitVal).  
    - A cell array of bit descriptions.  
    - An array of the input bit values, but with NaN if  
    the bit index is out of range.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Mar 20201)  
    Example: [BitName,BitDescription,BitInd]=bitind2name(Obj,[1 4;7 12])  
      
### name2bit

Convert bit names to bit indices and decimal representation


    
    Convert bit names to bit indices and decimal representation  
    Input  : - A single element BitDictionary object.  
    - A string or a cell array of strings containing but  
    names.  
    Output : - An array of bit indices (the same size as Bit  
    names.  
    - An array of bit decimal representations.  
    - The sum of bits decimal representations.  
    - A cell array of bit descriptions.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Mar 20201)  
    Example: [BitInd,BitDec,SumBitDec,BitDescription]=name2bit(Obj,{'Spike','DeadPix'})  
      
### read

read a dictionary from file/memnory FFU


    
    read a dictionary from file/memnory  
    FFU  
### set.Dic

setter for Dic property BinDic can be: 'table' | 'cell'


    
    setter for Dic property  
    BinDic can be: 'table' | 'cell'  
      
### unitTest




    
      
### write

write a dictionary to file/memory FFU


    
    write a dictionary to file/memory  
    FFU  
      
