# Class: convert



    
      
    convert class                                                      class  
    Description: A static class for conversion functions.  
    This class include many static function for units  
    conversion.  
    Highlights include:  
    convert.units - General units conversion (e.g., 'cm/s' to  
    km/h').  
    convert.angular - Convert between angular units.  
    convert.energy  - Convert between energy units.  
    convert.flux    - Convert fluxes (e.g., AB mag to ph/s/Ang).  
    convert.time    - Years, to JD etc.  
    convert.date2jd - Date to JD.  
    convert.jd2date - JD to date.  
    Type "convert." followed by <tab> to see the full list of  
    functions.  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
    Tested : Matlab R2014a  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Aug 2016  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
      
      

### Functions List

    angular - Convert angular units Package: @convert Description: Convert angular units.
    conversion - 
    date2jd - Convert Julian/Gregorian date to Julian Day Package: @convert Description: Convert Julian/Gregorian date to Julian Day.
    date2str - Convert date [D M Y H M S] to an ISO date string Package: @convert Description: Convert date [D M Y H M S] to an ISO date string: YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FFF
    dms2angle - Convert Sign,Deg,Minutes,Seconds to angle. Package: @convert Description: Convert Sign,Deg,Minutes,Seconds to angle.
    energy - Convert between different energy units Package: @convert Description: Convert between different energy units.
    flux - Convert between different flux units Package: @convert Description: Convert between different flux units
    flux2mag - Convert flux to magnitude or luptitude Package: @convert Description: Convert flux to magnitude or luptitude.
    frac2hms - Convert fraction to [H M S] Package: @convert Description: Convert fraction to [H M S]. Note that if the seconds or minutes are printed as 60 it means that they are actually 60-eps.
    hms2angle - Convert Hour,Minutes,Seconds to angle. Package: @convert Description: Convert Hour,Minutes,Seconds to angle.
    hms2frac - Convert [H M S] to fraction Package: @convert Description: Convert [H M S] to fraction.
    hour_str2frac - Convert hour string to fraction of day Package: @convert Description: Convert a string or cell array of strings containing the hour in format HH:MM:SS.frac' to fraction of day.                                   Input  : - String or cell array of strings containing the hour in                                               format HH:MM:SS.frac'.
    jd2date - Convert Julian days to Gregorian/Julian date Package: @convert Description: Convert Julian days to Gregorian/Julian date.
    length - Convert length units
    luptitude - Convert flux to luptitudes (asinh magnitudes) Package: @convert Description: Convert flux to luptitudes (asinh magnitudes).
    mass - Convert between different mass units Package: @convert Description: Convert between different mass units
    minusPi2Pi - convert angular units to -pi to pi range
    proper_motion - Convert proper motion units of the form 'angle/time'
    str2date - Convert a ISO time string  to matrix of times Package: @convert Description: Convert a string or a cell array of string containing date and time in the format 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.frac' or 'YYYY-MM-DD', to a matrix of dates with the following
    sum_mag - Sum magnitudes Package: @convert Description: Sum a set of magnitudes.
    temp - Temperature conversion Package: @convert Description: Convert between temperature systems.
    time - Convert between different types of time systems and years Package: @convert Description: Convert between different types of time systems and years. For example, this program can convert Julian years to Besselian years or JD
    timeUnits - convert time units
    unitTest - 
    units - Unit conversion Package: @convert Description: Unit conversion function. Given an input and output strings containing unit names, return the conversion multiplication factor needed for converting the input units to the output
    velocity - Convert velocity units of the form 'length/time'

### angular

Convert angular units Package: @convert Description: Convert angular units.


    
    Convert angular units  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert angular units.  
    Input  : - Input angular units name:  
    'rad'|'deg'|'arcmin'|'arcsec'|'mas'|'frac'|'hour'  
    Note that the 'pix' option generate a conversion factor of 1.  
    - Output angular units (options like first input argument).  
    - Value to convert. Default is 1.  
    - A string or a cell array of string that if the first input  
    argument (In) is equal to one of them then the function will  
    set the conversion factor to 1.  
    Output : - Converted value (by default this is the conversion factor).  
    License: GNU general public license version 3  
    Tested : Matlab R2015b  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Jun 2016  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: convert.angular('rad','mas');  
    convert.angular('rad','mas',1,'pix');  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### conversion




    
      
      
    length: ang, nm, mm, cm, m, km, inch, mile, feet, yard, ly,  
    pc, kpc, Mpc, Gpc  
      
    mass: me, mp, g, kg, EM, JM, SM  
      
    time: s, min, hour, day, JY  
      
    Temp:  
      


### date2jd

Convert Julian/Gregorian date to Julian Day Package: @convert Description: Convert Julian/Gregorian date to Julian Day.


    
    Convert Julian/Gregorian date to Julian Day  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert Julian/Gregorian date to Julian Day.  
    Input  : - Gregorian of Julian date in one of the following formats  
    [Day, Month, Year, Day_Fraction]  
    or [Day, Month, Year, Hour, Min, Sec]  
    or [Day, Month, Year] - in this case set Day_Fraction to 0.  
    Alternatively this can be a string or a cell array of strings  
    in which each string contains the date in the format:  
    'yyyy-mm-ddTHH:MM:SS' (e.g., '2010-08-11T15:01:56') or:  
    'yyyy-mm-dd HH:MM:SS'.  
    If argument is not provided then the program will calculate  
    the JD for now using the clock UTC computer (time zone  
    included).  
    - Output type. Options are:  
    'JD'  - Julian days (default).  
    'MJD' - Modified JD (JD-2400000.5).  
    - Flag indicating if possible to treat strings  
    containing only dates (no H:M:S). Default is false.  
    Output : - Row vector of Julian days.  
    Tested : Matlab 3.5  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Jan 1994  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: convert.date2jd([1 1 2000 10 30 0]);  
    convert.date2jd([1 1 2000; 2 2 2000]);  
    convert.date2jd('2010-10-12 10:10:10.111');  
    convert.date2jd({'2010-10-12 10:10:10.111'});  
    convert.date2jd;   JD of now  
    Reliable: 1  
      
      


### date2str

Convert date [D M Y H M S] to an ISO date string Package: @convert Description: Convert date [D M Y H M S] to an ISO date string: YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FFF


    
    Convert date [D M Y H M S] to an ISO date string  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert date [D M Y H M S] to an ISO date string: YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FFF  
    Input  : - Matrix of dates [D M Y H M S] (H, M, S are optional).  
    Each line corresponds to a single date.  
    - Seperator character between the output date and  
    time string. Default is 'T'.  
    Output : - A cell array of date string: YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FFF  
    Example: DateSte=convert.date2str([1 1 2000]);  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### dms2angle

Convert Sign,Deg,Minutes,Seconds to angle. Package: @convert Description: Convert Sign,Deg,Minutes,Seconds to angle.


    
    Convert Sign,Deg,Minutes,Seconds to angle.  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert Sign,Deg,Minutes,Seconds to angle.  
    Input  : - A four column matrix of [Sign D M S],  
    or a sexagesimal string ('+DD MM SS.SSS') with  
    arbitrary delimiters or a cell array of  
    sexagesimal strings.  
    - Output units: 'rad'|'deg'|'hour'|frac'.  
    Default is 'rad'  
    Output : - The output coordinates.  
    Example: convert.hms2angle([-1 10 10 10])  
    convert.hms2angle('-10:10:10','deg')  
      


### energy

Convert between different energy units Package: @convert Description: Convert between different energy units.


    
    Convert between different energy units  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert between different energy units.  
    Input  : - Input system:  
    'erg'   - ergs  
    'J'     - Jouls  
    'Hz'    - Frequency [1/s]  
    'A','Ang'- Wavelength [Ang]  
    'cm'    - Wavelength [cm]  
    'nm'    - Wavelength [nm]  
    'm'     - Wavelength [m]  
    'eV'    - Electron volts [h nu/q]  
    'keV'   - kilo Electron volts [h nu/q]  
    'MeV'   - Mega Electron volts [h nu/q]  
    'GeV'   - Giga Electron volts [h nu/q]  
    'T'     - Temperature [K]  
    'me'    - Electron mass [E/m_e]  
    'mp'    - Proton mass [E/m_p]  
    'cal'   - calorie (4.184 J)  
    'Btu'   - (1.055x10^3 J)  
    'kWh'   - kilowatt-hour (3.6x10^6 J)  
    'TNT'   - one ton of TNT (4.2x10^9 J)  
    'gr'    - Energy equivalent of 1 gram of matter (9x10^13 J)  
    - Output system (see input system for options).  
    - Input energy value to convert. Default is 1.  
    - A string or a cell array of string that if the first input  
    argument (In) is equal to one of them then the function will  
    set the conversion factor to 1.  
    Output : - Energy in output system.  
    Tested : Matlab 7.0  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Feb 2006  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: OutE=convert.energy('Hz','erg',1);  Convert 1Hz to ergs  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### flux

Convert between different flux units Package: @convert Description: Convert between different flux units


    
    Convert between different flux units  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert between different flux units  
    Input  : - Flux  
    - Input units - options are:  
    'cgs/A'    [erg/s/cm^2/A]  
    'cgs/Hz'   [erg/s/cm^2/Hz]  
    'mJy'      [1e-26 erg/s/cm^2/Hz]  
    'AB'       [AB magnitude]  
    'STmag'    [ST magnitude]  
    'ph/A'     [ph/s/cm^2/A]  
    'ph/Hz'    [ph/s/cm^2/Hz]  
    - Output units (see input units).  
    - Frequency at which flux is measured.  
    - Units of frequency - options are:  
    'Hz'  
    'A','Ang'  
    'cm'  
    'nm'  
    'eV'  
    'keV'...  
    see convert.energy.m for more options  
    Output : - Flux in output units  
    Tested : Matlab 7.11  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Mar 2011  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Updates: STmag option added on 2016-02-15  
    Example: Out=convert.flux(1,'mJy','AB',5000,'A')  
    Reliable: 2  
    -  
      


### flux2mag

Convert flux to magnitude or luptitude Package: @convert Description: Convert flux to magnitude or luptitude.


    
    Convert flux to magnitude or luptitude  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert flux to magnitude or luptitude.  
    Input  : - Flux  
    - ZP  
    - A flag indicating if to return Luptitude (true) or  
    magnitude (false). Default is true.  
    - Luptitude softening parameter (B), default is 1e-10.  
    Output : - Magnitude or luptitude.  
    License: GNU general public license version 3  
    See also: luptitude.m  
    Tested : Matlab R2014a  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    May 2015  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: Mag=convert.flux2mag(1,1)  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### frac2hms

Convert fraction to [H M S] Package: @convert Description: Convert fraction to [H M S]. Note that if the seconds or minutes are printed as 60 it means that they are actually 60-eps.


    
    Convert fraction to [H M S]  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert fraction to [H M S].  
    Note that if the seconds or minutes are printed  
    as 60 it means that they are actually 60-eps.  
    Input  : - Vector of fractions.  
    Output : - A three column matrix of [H M S].  
    Example: frac2hms(rand(10,1))  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### hms2angle

Convert Hour,Minutes,Seconds to angle. Package: @convert Description: Convert Hour,Minutes,Seconds to angle.


    
    Convert Hour,Minutes,Seconds to angle.  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert Hour,Minutes,Seconds to angle.  
    Input  : - A three column matrix of [H M S],  
    or a sexagesimal string ('HH MM SS.SSS') with  
    arbitrary delimiters or a cell array of  
    sexagesimal strings.  
    - Output units: 'rad'|'deg'|'hour'|frac'.  
    Default is 'rad'  
    Output : - The output coordinates.  
    Example: convert.hms2angle([10 10 10])  
    convert.hms2angle('10:10:10','deg')  
      


### hms2frac

Convert [H M S] to fraction Package: @convert Description: Convert [H M S] to fraction.


    
    Convert [H M S] to fraction  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert [H M S] to fraction.  
    Input  : - A three column matrix of [H M S].  
    Output : - A fraction of day.  
    Example: convert.hms2frac([10 10 10]);  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### hour_str2frac

Convert hour string to fraction of day Package: @convert Description: Convert a string or cell array of strings containing the hour in format HH:MM:SS.frac' to fraction of day.                                   Input  : - String or cell array of strings containing the hour in                                               format HH:MM:SS.frac'.


    
    Convert hour string to fraction of day  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert a string or cell array of strings containing  
    the hour in format HH:MM:SS.frac' to fraction of day.                                   Input  : - String or cell array of strings containing the hour in                                               format HH:MM:SS.frac'.  
    Output : - Vector of fraction of day for each hour in the input.  
    Tested : Matlab R2014a  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Dec 2014  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/                                                    Example: [Frac]=convert.hour_str2frac('10:10:10.111')  
    [Frac]=convert.hour_str2frac({'10:10:10.111','11:11:11.12'})  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### jd2date

Convert Julian days to Gregorian/Julian date Package: @convert Description: Convert Julian days to Gregorian/Julian date.


    
    Convert Julian days to Gregorian/Julian date  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert Julian days to Gregorian/Julian date.  
    Input  : - Row vector of (positive) Julian Days.  
    - Output format:  
    'f'  - [Day Month Year, Day_Fraction(UT)] (default).  
    'H'  - [Day Month Year, H M S]  
    Output : - Matrix of dates.  
    e.g., [Day, Month, Year, Day_Fraction(UT)].  
    Tested : Matlab 5.2  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Sep 1999  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: convert.jd2date(convert.date2jd([1 1 2000; 2 2 2000]).')  
    Reliable: 1  
      


### length

Convert length units


    
    Convert length units  
    Input  : - Input units:  
    'cm'|'m'|'mm'|'ang'|...  
    - Output units (like input).  
    - Input value. Default is 1.  
    Output : - Converted output value.  
    AUthor : Eran Ofek (May 2021)  
    Example: convert.length('yard','m')  
      


### luptitude

Convert flux to luptitudes (asinh magnitudes) Package: @convert Description: Convert flux to luptitudes (asinh magnitudes).


    
    Convert flux to luptitudes (asinh magnitudes)  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert flux to luptitudes (asinh magnitudes).  
    Input  : - Flux.  
    - Reference flux (Flux0), default is 1.  
    Note that this parameter should equal to 10.^(0.4.*ZP);  
    - Softening parameter (B), default is 1e-10.  
    Output : - Luptitude.  
    Tested : Matlab 7.13  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Jul 2012  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### mass

Convert between different mass units Package: @convert Description: Convert between different mass units


    
    Convert between different mass units  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert between different mass units  
    Input  : - Input system:  
    'gr'  
    'kg'  
    'SunM'  
    'EarthM'  
    'mp'  
    'me'  
    - Output system.  
    - Input Mass. Default is 1.  
    Output : - Output mass.  
      


### minusPi2Pi

convert angular units to -pi to pi range


    
    convert angular units to -pi to pi range  
    Input  : - Angular values.  
    : - Output and input units: 'rad' | 'deg'. Default is  
    'deg'  
    Output : - Angular values in the range of -pi to pi.  
      


### proper_motion

Convert proper motion units of the form 'angle/time'


    
    Convert proper motion units of the form 'angle/time'  
    Input  : - Input velocity units.  
    - Output velocity units.  
    - Value to convert. Default is 1.  
    Output : - Converted value.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (May 2021)  
    Example: convert.proper_motion('arcsec/yr','mas/yr',1)  
      


### str2date

Convert a ISO time string  to matrix of times Package: @convert Description: Convert a string or a cell array of string containing date and time in the format 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.frac' or 'YYYY-MM-DD', to a matrix of dates with the following


    
    Convert a ISO time string  to matrix of times  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert a string or a cell array of string containing date  
    and time in the format 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.frac'  
    or 'YYYY-MM-DD', to a matrix of dates with the following  
    columns [Y M D H M S].  
    Input  : - A string or a cell array of string containing date  
    and time in the format 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.frac'  
    or 'YYYY-MM-DD'  
    Output : - A matrix of dates with the following columns [Y M D H M S].  
    Tested : Matlab R2014a  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Dec 2014  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: DateVec=convert.str2date({'2010-10-11T10:10:10.11','2014-12-12 10:23:59.1'});  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### sum_mag

Sum magnitudes Package: @convert Description: Sum a set of magnitudes.


    
    Sum magnitudes  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Sum a set of magnitudes.  
    Input  : - Matrix or vector of magnitudes to sum.  
    - Dimesnions along to sum. Default is 1.  
    Output : - Sum of magnitude in mag.  
    - Fraction of flux for each entry out of the total flux.  
    Tested : Matlab R2011b  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Apr 2014  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [SumMag,FracFlux]=convert.sum_mag([15;17;19])  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### temp

Temperature conversion Package: @convert Description: Convert between temperature systems.


    
    Temperature conversion  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert between temperature systems.  
    Input  : - Input temperature.  
    - Units of the input temperature:  
    'C' - degree Celsius  
    'F' - degree Fahrenheit  
    'K' - Kelvin  
    'R' - Rankine  
    - Units of output temperature.  
    Output : - Output temperature.  
    Tested : Matlab 7.6  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Oct 2008  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: OutTemp=convert.temp(0,'C','K');  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
      


### time

Convert between different types of time systems and years Package: @convert Description: Convert between different types of time systems and years. For example, this program can convert Julian years to Besselian years or JD


    
    Convert between different types of time systems and years  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Convert between different types of time systems and years.  
    For example, this  
    program can convert Julian years to Besselian years or JD  
    and visa versa.  
    Input  : - Input to convert;  
    - Input type - options are:  
    'J'    - Julian year.  
    'B'    - Besselian year.  
    '1'    - Jan 1 of the year. (only input)  
    'JD'   - Julian days.  
    'MJD'  - MJD.  
    'Date' - date matrix [D M Y] or [D M Y frac] or [D M Y H M S].  
    'StrDate'- String date 'YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.FFF',  
    or cell array of string dates.  
    'StrDateO'- String date 'YYYY-MM-DD', or cell array of string dates.  
    - Output type, options are as the input type.  
    Output : - Output.  
    Tested : Matlab 7.10  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Oct 2010  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: convert.time(2000,'J','B')  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### timeUnits

convert time units


    
    convert time units  
    Input  : - In time units  
    's'|'min'|'hr'|'day'|'sday'|'week'|'jyr'|'jcy'  
    - Out Units (like input).  
    - Value to convert. Default is 1.  
    Output : - Converted time  
    Author : Eran Ofek (May 2021)  
    Example: convert.timeUnits('jcy','min',1)  
      


### unitTest




    
      


### units

Unit conversion Package: @convert Description: Unit conversion function. Given an input and output strings containing unit names, return the conversion multiplication factor needed for converting the input units to the output


    
    Unit conversion  
    Package: @convert  
    Description: Unit conversion function. Given an input and output strings  
    containing unit names, return the conversion multiplication  
    factor needed for converting the input units to the output  
    units. The user is responsible for the balance of the  
    transformation.  
    Type of units:  
    Length:  
    'ang','mm' ; 'cm' ; 'inch' ; 'feet' ;  
    'micron', 'm' - meter ; 'km' ; 'mile' ;  
    'earth_rad' - Earth radius ; 'au' ;  
    'ly' - light year ; 'pc'; 'yard'  
    Time:  
    's' ; 'min' ; 'hour' ; 'day';  
    'sday' - sidereal day ; week ;  
    'year'; 'cen' - century  
    Mass:  
    'gr'/'g'; 'kg'; 'earth_mass' - Earth mass;  
    'jupiter_mass' - Jupiter mass;  
    'sun_mass' - Solar mass;  
    'mp' - proton mass;  
    'me' - electron mass;  
    'libra';'pound'  
    Energy: (see also convert_energy.m)  
    'erg'; 'J'  
    Angle:  
    'rad' ; 'deg' ;  
    'amin' (or 'arcmin') - arcmin ; 'asec' (or 'arcsec') -  
    arcsec, 'mas'  
    Solid Angle:  
    'ster' ; 'sdeg' - square degree ;  
    'smin' - square arcmin ;  
    'ssec' - square arcsec  
    Input  : - String containing the input units.  
    - String containing the output units.  
    - Optional value to convert from input units to output  
    units. Default is 1.  
    Output : - Multiplication factor for converting input units to  
    output units.  
    - The input value given in the output units.  
    - A string describing the transformation (e.g.,  
    Example : convert.units('m^3 * kg^-1 * s^-2','cm^3 * gr^-1 * s^-2')  
    Tested : Matlab 6.5  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Jul 2003  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [Factor,Out,String]=convert.units('erg','J',1)  
    Reliable: 1  
      


### velocity

Convert velocity units of the form 'length/time'


    
    Convert velocity units of the form 'length/time'  
    Input  : - Input velocity units.  
    - Output velocity units.  
    - Value to convert. Default is 1.  
    Output : - Converted value.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (May 2021)  
    Example: convert.velocity('km/s','au/day',1)  
      


