# Class: Component



    
    Component class - this class hinerits from Base class, and most  
    astro-related class are hinerits from this class.  
    The component class starts loads the Configuration object into it.  
      
      
      
      

### Functions List

    Component - Constructor By default use system log and configuration NewComp = Component() NewComp = Component(Owner)
    convert2class - Convert a class that henhirts from Component to another class Uses eval, so in some cases maybe slow. Creates a new copy.
    copyElement - Custom copy of object properties Called from copy() of matlab.mixin.Copyable decendents
    data2array - Convert scalar data property in an object into an array
    makeUuid - Generate or re-generate unique ID for each element in object, Return Uuid or [] for array MyUuid = Obj.makeUuid()
    msgLog - Write message to log according to current log-level settings Example: Obj.msgLog(LogLevel.Debug, 'Value: d', i)
    msgStyle - Log with style (color, etc.) Example: Obj.msgLog(LogLevel.Debug, 'Value: d', i)
    needMapKey - Generate or get current map key as uuid Map key is used with ComponentMap class as key to the object
    needUuid - Generate unique ID only if empty Return Uuid or [] for array
    newSerial - Generate simple serial number, used as alternative to Uuid
    newSerialStr - Generate simple serial number, used as alternative to Uuid, shorter string and fast performance. If parameter is specified, use it as prefix to the counter Example: Serial = Obj.newSerialStr('MyIndex') -> 'MyIndex1'
    newUuid - Generate Uuid using java package
    selectDefaultArgsFromProp - Given an Args structure, go over fields - if empty, take value from object property. Otherwise, use value.
    setName - Set component name
    unitTest - Component.unitTest

### Component

Constructor By default use system log and configuration NewComp = Component() NewComp = Component(Owner)


    
    Constructor  
    By default use system log and configuration  
    NewComp = Component()  
    NewComp = Component(Owner)  
      
    Set owner component  


### convert2class

Convert a class that henhirts from Component to another class Uses eval, so in some cases maybe slow. Creates a new copy.


    
    Convert a class that henhirts from Component to another class  
    Uses eval, so in some cases maybe slow.  
    Creates a new copy.  
    Input  : - An object which class hinherits from Component.  
    - A cell array of data properties in the input class.  
    - A cell array of data properties, corresponding to  
    the previous argument, in the target class.  
    - A function handle for the target class.  
    * ...,key,val,...  
    'UseEval' - A logical indicating if to use the  
    eval function. This is needed when the data  
    properties have levels. Default is false.  
    Output : - The converted class  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Apr 2021)  
    Example: IC=ImageComponent; IC.Image = 1;  
    AI=convert2class(IC,{'Image'},{'Image'},@AstroImage)  
    AI=convert2class(IC,{'Data'},{'ImageData.Data'},@AstroImage,'UseEval',true)  
      


### copyElement

Custom copy of object properties Called from copy() of matlab.mixin.Copyable decendents


    
    Custom copy of object properties  
    Called from copy() of matlab.mixin.Copyable decendents  
      
    Make shallow copy of all properties  


### data2array

Convert scalar data property in an object into an array


    
    Convert scalar data property in an object into an array  
    Input  : - An object that hinherits from Component.  
    That have data properties that contains scalar or  
    empty.  
    - A cell array of data properties.  
    The scalar content of each such data property will  
    be inserted into an array of numbers which size is  
    equal to the size of the input object.  
    Output : * An array per each data property.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Apr 2021)  
    Example: IC= ImageComponent({1, 2});  
    [A] = data2array(IC,'Image')  
    [A,B] = data2array(IC,{'Image','Data'})  
      


### makeUuid

Generate or re-generate unique ID for each element in object, Return Uuid or [] for array MyUuid = Obj.makeUuid()


    
    Generate or re-generate unique ID for each element in object,  
    Return Uuid or [] for array  
    MyUuid = Obj.makeUuid()  
      


### msgLog

Write message to log according to current log-level settings Example: Obj.msgLog(LogLevel.Debug, 'Value: d', i)


    
    Write message to log according to current log-level settings  
    Example: Obj.msgLog(LogLevel.Debug, 'Value: d', i)  
      
    Do nothing if both display and file logs are disabled  


### msgStyle

Log with style (color, etc.) Example: Obj.msgLog(LogLevel.Debug, 'Value: d', i)


    
    Log with style (color, etc.)  
    Example: Obj.msgLog(LogLevel.Debug, 'Value: d', i)  
      
    Do nothing if both display and file logs are disabled  


### needMapKey

Generate or get current map key as uuid Map key is used with ComponentMap class as key to the object


    
    Generate or get current map key as uuid  
    Map key is used with ComponentMap class as key to the object  


### needUuid

Generate unique ID only if empty Return Uuid or [] for array


    
    Generate unique ID only if empty  
    Return Uuid or [] for array  


### newSerial

Generate simple serial number, used as alternative to Uuid


    
    Generate simple serial number, used as alternative to Uuid  


### newSerialStr

Generate simple serial number, used as alternative to Uuid, shorter string and fast performance. If parameter is specified, use it as prefix to the counter Example: Serial = Obj.newSerialStr('MyIndex') -> 'MyIndex1'


    
    Generate simple serial number, used as alternative to Uuid,  
    shorter string and fast performance.  
    If parameter is specified, use it as prefix to the counter  
    Example:  
    Serial = Obj.newSerialStr('MyIndex') -> 'MyIndex1'  


### newUuid

Generate Uuid using java package


    
    Generate Uuid using java package  


### selectDefaultArgsFromProp

Given an Args structure, go over fields - if empty, take value from object property. Otherwise, use value.


    
    Given an Args structure, go over fields - if empty, take  
    value from object property. Otherwise, use value.  
      


### setName

Set component name


    
    Set component name  


### unitTest

Component.unitTest


    
    Component.unitTest  
      


