# Class: ds9



    
      
    DS9 class                                                          class  
    Description: A static class for intearction with the ds9 display.  
    This include functions to load images, change their  
    properties, create and plot region files, printing, image  
    examination, interaction with SIM content and more.  
    Type "ds9." followed by <tab> to see the full list of  
    functions.  
    Full manual is available in manual_ds9.pdf  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
    Tested : Matlab R2014a  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Jul 2016  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
      
      
      
    BUGS & ISSUES:  
    If ds9.open does not display the image - see possible problem/solution:  
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q2qI25B9DlF2i7IbWdmPPt3sn3TL0Eq0P5HEaYI6HfM/edit#  
    Fix a contradiction in the matlab libraries, that cause a problem running system commands:  
    sudo mv /usr/local/MATLAB/R2020b/sys/os/glnxa64/libstdc++.so.6 /usr/local/MATLAB/R2020b/sys/os/glnxa64/libstdc++.so.6.orig  
      
      

### Functions List

    blink - Set to blink display mode Package: @ds9
    clear_frame - Clear frames from ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Clear frame number, some frames or all frames from ds9.
    cmap - Set the color map of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the color map of an image in ds9
    colorbar - set the colorbar of an ds9 image Package: @ds9 description: set the colorbar of an ds9 image
    construct_command - Construct an arguments string for ds9 command Package: @ds9
    coo2xy - Convert RA/Dec to X/Y (image) using ds9 tools Package: @ds9
    delete_frame - Delete frames from ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Delete frame number, some frames or all frames from ds9.
    delete_region - Delete all regions from ds9 frame Package: @ds9 Description: Delete all regions from ds9 frame
    disp - Display images in ds9 (use ds9 for short cut) Package: @ds9 Description: Display images in ds9 For shortcut use the ds9 constructor (see examples).
    ds9 - Display images in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Display images in ds9 (constructor). See also ds9.disp.
    dss - Get a DSS sky image from stsci Package: @ds9 Description: Get a DSS sky image from stsci.
    exit - exit ds9 Package: @ds9
    frame - Set ds9 frame Package: @ds9
    getbox - Get the pixel values in a specified box region Package: @ds9 getbox function                                                          ds9 Description: Get from the ds9 display the pixel values in a specified
    getcoo - Interactively get the coordinates (WCS) Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively get the coordinates (WCS) and value of the pixel selected by the mouse (left click) or by clicking any character on the ds9 display.
    getpos - Get X,Y position and pixel value Package: @ds9 Description: Get X,Y position and pixel value in clicked position.
    ginput - Interactively get the coordinates (X/Y or WCS) Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively get the coordinates (X/Y or WCS) and value of the pixel selected by the mouse (left click) or by clicking any character on the ds9 display.
    header - Description: Display FITS header dialaog
    iline - Interactively plot a line Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively plot a line in ds9 between two points defined by mouse left clicks. Also return the interpolated values in the image
    imark - Interactive plot symbols Package: @ds9 Description: Interactive plot symbols in right click coordinates. Use 'q' click to abort. Click 'c' to switch to circle plotting, and
    imexam - ds9 image examination utility Package: @ds9 Description: Interactive image examination in ds9.
    ipoly - Interactively plot a polygon Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively plot a polygon. Verteces are defined by mouse or keybord clicks. 'q' to finish and abort.
    isopen - Check if ds9 is open (linux/mac only) Package: @ds9
    line_lt - Plot multiple lines based on X,Y,length,theta Package: @ds9 Description: Plot multiple lines based on X,Y,length,theta
    line_xy - Plot a broken line Package: @ds9 Description: Plot a broken line (curve) in ds9 image.
    load - Load a FITS image into ds9 frame Package: @ds9 Description: Load a FITS image into ds9 frame
    load1 - Load a FITS image into ds9 frame number 1 Package: @ds9 Description: Load a FITS image into ds9 frame number 1
    load_region - load regions file name into current ds9 frame Package: @ds9 Description: load regions file name into current ds9 frame.
    lock_wcs - Lock all images WCS to current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Lock all images WCS to current frame.
    lock_xy - Lock all images x/y coordinayes to current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Lock all images x/y coordinayes to current frame.
    match_colorbar - Match the intensity colorbar of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the intensity colorbar of all frames to the current frame.
    match_scale - Match the intensity scale of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the intensity scale of all frames to the current frame.
    match_scalelimits - Match the intensity scalelimits of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the intensity scalelimits of all frames to the current frame.
    match_wcs - Match the WCS coordinates of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the WCS coordinates of all frames to the current frame.
    match_xy - Match the image coordinates of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the image coordinates of all frames to the current frame.
    mode - Set ds9 mode Package: @ds9
    nearcat - Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object Package: @ds9 Description: Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object to the clicked position.
    nearestcat - Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object Package: @ds9 Description: Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object to the clicked position.
    nedlink - Open NED link for clicked position Package: @ds9 Description: Click on a position in an image displayed in ds9 and this program will open the NED coordinate search web page for the coordinates.
    open - Open ds9 dispaly window if not exist already and set mode to region Package: @ds9
    orient - Set the x/y orientation of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the x/y orientation of an image in ds9
    pan - Set the pan (cursor location) of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the pan (cursor location) of an image in ds9
    plot - Generate and plot a region file from a list of coordinates Package: @ds9 Description: Generate and plot a region file from a list of coordinates. This is like the function ds9.write_region with
    plotXY - Example: ds9.plotXY([X, Y],[], 'wo','MarkerSize',18,'Marker','s', 'CooType','icrs'); ds9.plotXY(AstroCatalog, 'ro', 'MarkerSize',18, 'ColNameX','X','ColNameY','Y'); ds9.plotXY(AstroCatalog, 'go', 'MarkerSize',18, 'CooType','sphere');
    plotc - Generate and plot a region file from a list of celestial coordinates Package: @ds9
    psprint - Print a postscript file into current directory Package: @ds9 Description: Print a postscript file into current directory.
    read2AstroImage - Save a ds9 frame in an AstroImage object Package: @ds9 Description: Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object
    read2fits - Save a ds9 frame to FITS image Package: @ds9 Description: Save a ds9 frame to FITS image
    read2sim - Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object Package: @ds9 Description: Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object
    rotate - Set the rotation of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the rotation of an image in ds9
    save_region - Save regions into a file Package: @ds9 Description: Save regions into a file.
    scale - Set the intensity scale of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the intensity scale of an image in ds9
    sdsscat - Get SDSS catalog near clicked position Package: @ds9 Description: Get SDSS catalog near clicked position
    sdssnavi - Open SDSS navigator for clicked position Package: @ds9 Description: Click on a position in an image displayed in ds9 and this program will open the SDSS navigator web page for the coordinates.
    simval - Interactively get values from SIM images Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively get values from SIM images (image, background, error, weight and mask) at clicked positions. Click 'q' to abort.
    single - Set to single image display mode Package: @ds9
    supported - Return true if ds9 is supported (currently only Linux and Mac)
    system - Construct and execute an xpa command Package: @ds9
    text - plot text to ds9 current frame Package: @ds9 Description: plot text to ds9 current frame in image coordinates position.
    tile - Set the tile the display mode of ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the tile the display mode of ds9.
    unitTest - unitTest for ds9
    url - Load FITS file from a URL Package: @ds9 Description: Load FITS file from a URL.
    write_region - Write a regions file for a list of coordinates and properties Package: @ds9 Description: Write a regions file for a list of coordinates and properties.
    xpaget - Execute an xpaget command Package: @ds9
    xpahelp - Open the XPA command help web page Package: @ds9
    xpaset - Execute an xpaset command Package: @ds9
    xy2coo - Convert RA/Dec to X/Y (image) using ds9 tools Package: @ds9
    zoom - Set the zoom of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the zoom of an image in ds9

### blink

Set to blink display mode Package: @ds9


    
    Set to blink display mode  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : - Time interval. Default is 0.5s.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.blink  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### clear_frame

Clear frames from ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Clear frame number, some frames or all frames from ds9.


    
    Clear frames from ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Clear frame number, some frames or all frames  
    from ds9.  
    Input  : - Vector of frames to clear.  
    If empty then clear current frame. Default.  
    If Inf then clear all frames.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.clear_frame(Inf)  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### cmap

Set the color map of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the color map of an image in ds9


    
    Set the color map of an image in ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Set the color map of an image in ds9  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of arguments to pass to the ds9  
    cmap command.  
    Default is 'invert yes'.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.cmap('Heat')  
    ds9.cmap Heat  
    ds9.cmap('value',5)  
    ds9.cmap('cmap','match');  
    Reliable: 2  


### colorbar

set the colorbar of an ds9 image Package: @ds9 description: set the colorbar of an ds9 image


    
    set the colorbar of an ds9 image  
    Package: @ds9  
    description: set the colorbar of an ds9 image  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of arguments to pass to the ds9  
    colorbar command.  
    Default is 'no'.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.colorbar('vertical')  
    ds9.colorbar('size',20)  
    Reliable: 2  


### construct_command

Construct an arguments string for ds9 command Package: @ds9


    
    Construct an arguments string for ds9 command  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of arguments from which to  
    construct a string.  
    Default is ''.  
    Output : The constructed string  
    Example: ds9.construct_command('scale linear');  
    ds9.construct_command scale linear  
    ds9.construct_command('log',100);  return 'log 100'  
    ds9.construct_command('log 100');  
    Reliable: 2  


### coo2xy

Convert RA/Dec to X/Y (image) using ds9 tools Package: @ds9


    
    Convert RA/Dec to X/Y (image) using ds9 tools  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : - RA [deg].  
    - Dec [deg].  
    - Output coordinate type: {'image'|'physical'}.  
    Default is 'image.  
    Output : - X [pix].  
    - Y [pix].  
      


### delete_frame

Delete frames from ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Delete frame number, some frames or all frames from ds9.


    
    Delete frames from ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Delete frame number, some frames or all frames  
    from ds9.  
    Input  : - Vector of frames to delete.  
    If empty then delete current frame. Default.  
    If Inf then delete all frames.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.delete_frame(Inf)  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### delete_region

Delete all regions from ds9 frame Package: @ds9 Description: Delete all regions from ds9 frame


    
    Delete all regions from ds9 frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Delete all regions from ds9 frame  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.delete_region  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### disp

Display images in ds9 (use ds9 for short cut) Package: @ds9 Description: Display images in ds9 For shortcut use the ds9 constructor (see examples).


    
    Display images in ds9 (use ds9 for short cut)  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Display images in ds9  
    For shortcut use the ds9 constructor  
    (see examples).  
    Input  : - Images to display. One of the following:  
    1. String containing a single FITS image name.  
    2. String with wild cards and ranges for multiple  
    FITS images.  
    3. Cell array of FITS image names.  
    4. A matrix.  
    5. A cube (display a cube).  
    6. Cell array of matrices.  
    7. A SIM object.  
    - Frame number, or vector of frames. Default is 1.  
    * ...,key,val,...  
    'Scale' - See ds9.scale. Default is 'mode zscale'.  
    'CMap'  - See ds9.cmap. Default is [].  
    'Colorbar' - See ds9.colorbar. Default is 'no'.  
    'Orient'- See ds9.orient. Default is [].  
    'Rotate'- See ds9.rotate. Default is [].  
    'Zoom'  - See ds9.zoom. Default is 1.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.disp(rand(100,100),1,'Zoom',2)  
    ds9.disp(rand(100,100),1,'Zoom',2);  
    ds9.disp(Sim(1:3));  
    ds9.disp('MyFitsImage.fits');  
    ds9.disp('Images*.fits');  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### ds9

Display images in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Display images in ds9 (constructor). See also ds9.disp.


    
    Display images in ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Display images in ds9 (constructor).  
    See also ds9.disp.  
    Input  : - Images to display. One of the following:  
    1. String containing a single FITS image name.  
    2. String with wild cards and ranges for multiple  
    FITS images.  
    3. Cell array of FITS image names.  
    4. A matrix.  
    5. A cube (display a cube).  
    6. Cell array of matrices.  
    7. A SIM object.  
    * A vector of frames (see 'Frame') in which to load  
    the images into followed by ...,key,val,... pairs,  
    or just the ...,key,val,... pairs.  
    'Frame' - Frame indices or frame parameters  
    (e.g., 'next'). Default is (1:N), where  
    N is the number of images to display.  
    'Scale' - See ds9.scale. Default is 'mode zscale'.  
    'CMap'  - See ds9.cmap. Default is [].  
    'Colorbar' - See ds9.colorbar. Default is 'no'.  
    'Orient'- See ds9.orient. Default is [].  
    'Rotate'- See ds9.rotate. Default is [].  
    'Zoom'  - See ds9.zoom. Default is 1.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9(rand(100,100),1,'Zoom',2)  
    ds9(rand(100,100),'Zoom',2);  
    ds9(Sim(1:3));  
    ds9('MyFitsImage.fits');  
    ds9('Images*.fits');  
    Reliable: 2  
      
    ds9_disp(Image,varargin{:});  


### dss

Get a DSS sky image from stsci Package: @ds9 Description: Get a DSS sky image from stsci.


    
    Get a DSS sky image from stsci  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Get a DSS sky image from stsci.  
    Input  : - J2000 RA [radians, [H M S], or sexagesimal string],  
    or object name (object name if Dec is empty).  
    - J2000 Dec [radians, [sign D M S], or sexagesimal  
    string]. If empty then assume that the first  
    argument is object name.  
    - Image size in arcsec. Default is [900 900].  
    - Band: 'red2'|'blue2'|'ir2'|'red1'|'blue1'|...  
    'quickv'|'gsc1'|'gsc2'.  
    Default is 'red2'.  
    - Frame number: 'new'|'current'. Default is 'new'.  
    - Save. Defaukt is false.  
      


### exit

exit ds9 Package: @ds9


    
    exit ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
    Reliable: 2  


### frame

Set ds9 frame Package: @ds9


    
    Set ds9 frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : - If not given than only get the current frame  
    number. If numeric then set frame number.  
    Alternatively, if a string than set to frame name.  
    Possible names: 'first'|'prev'|'next'|'last'  
    Additional possibilities include:  
    'hide'|'move first'|'move last'|'move back'|  
    'move forward'|'match wcs'|'lock wcs'|...  
    Output : - Current frame number.  
    Reliable: 2  


### getbox

Get the pixel values in a specified box region Package: @ds9 getbox function                                                          ds9 Description: Get from the ds9 display the pixel values in a specified


    
    Get the pixel values in a specified box region  
    Package: @ds9  
      
    getbox function                                                          ds9  
    Description: Get from the ds9 display the pixel values in a specified  
    box region.  
    Input  : - Box ccordinates (in 'image' coordinates):  
    [Xmin, Xmax, Ymin,Ymax]  (section)  
    or  
    [X_left_corner,  Y_left_corner,  X_width,  
    Y_height] (corner)  
    or  
    [X_center,       Y_center,       X_semiwidth,  
    Y_semiheight] (center).  
    Alternatively, if empty than the user have to  
    define two corners of the box using the mouse left  
    click. Default is empty.  
    - Method of box position {'section'|'corner'|'center'},  
    default is 'section'.  
    Note that in case of Method='center' and CooType='image',  
    box size will be 2*semiwidth+1.  
    - Coordinate type {'image'|'physical'|'fk4'|'fk5'|'icrs'},  
    default is 'image'.  
    THIS OPTION IS NOT SUPPORTED!  
    Output : - Matrix of pixel values in box.  
    - Matrix of X position in 'image' coordinates, corresponding  
    to the matrix of pixel values.  
    - Matrix of Y position in 'image' coordinates, corresponding  
    to the matrix of pixel values.  
    Reference: http://hea-www.harvard.edu/RD/ds9/ref/xpa.html  
    Tested : Matlab 7.0  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Feb 2007  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [MatV,MatX,MatY]=ds9.getbox([101 110 101 110]);  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### getcoo

Interactively get the coordinates (WCS) Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively get the coordinates (WCS) and value of the pixel selected by the mouse (left click) or by clicking any character on the ds9 display.


    
    Interactively get the coordinates (WCS)  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Interactively get the coordinates (WCS) and value  
    of the pixel selected by the mouse (left click) or by clicking  
    any character on the ds9 display.  
    Input  : - Operation mode:  
    If numeric than will return after the user clicked  
    the specified number of times.  
    if 'q' than will return if the user clicked 'q'.  
    Default is 'q'.  
    - Operation mode:  
    'any'   - will return after any character or left click is  
    pressed (default).  
    'key'   - will return after any character is pressed.  
    'mouse' - will return after mouse left click is pressed.  
    Output : - RA or Galactic longitude [rad].  
    - Y/Dec or Galactic latitude [rad].  
    - Pixel value.  
    - Cell array of string of clicked events.  
    '<1>' for mouse left click.  
    Required: XPA - http://hea-www.harvard.edu/saord/xpa/  
    Tested : Matlab 7.0  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Feb 2007  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [X,Y,V]=ds9.getcoo(3);    return the WCS RA/Dec position  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.getcoo('q','key');  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.getcoo(2,'mouse');  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.getcoo('q','any');  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### getpos

Get X,Y position and pixel value Package: @ds9 Description: Get X,Y position and pixel value in clicked position.


    
    Get X,Y position and pixel value  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Get X,Y position and pixel value in clicked  
    position.  
    Input  : - Operation mode:  
    If numeric than will return after the user clicked  
    the specified number of times.  
    if 'q' than will return if the user clicked 'q'.  
    Default is 'q'.  
    - Operation mode:  
    'any'   - will return after any character or left click is  
    pressed (default).  
    'key'   - will return after any character is pressed.  
    'mouse' - will return after mouse left click is pressed.  
    Output : - X  
    - Y  
    - Pixel value.  
    - Cell array of string of clicked events.  
    '<1>' for mouse left click.  
    Required: XPA - http://hea-www.harvard.edu/saord/xpa/  
    Tested : Matlab 7.0  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Feb 2007  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [X,Y,V]=ds9.getpos(3);  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.getpos(1,'key');  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.getpos(2,'mouse');  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.getpos(1,'any');  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### ginput

Interactively get the coordinates (X/Y or WCS) Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively get the coordinates (X/Y or WCS) and value of the pixel selected by the mouse (left click) or by clicking any character on the ds9 display.


    
    Interactively get the coordinates (X/Y or WCS)  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Interactively get the coordinates (X/Y or WCS) and value  
    of the pixel selected by the mouse (left click) or by clicking  
    any character on the ds9 display.  
    Input  : - Coordinate type {'fk4'|'fk5'|'icrs'|'eq'|  
    'galactic'|'image'|'physical'},  
    default is 'image'.  
    'eq' is equivalent to 'icrs'.  
    - Operation mode:  
    If numeric than will return after the user clicked  
    the specified number of times.  
    if 'q' than will return if the user clicked 'q'.  
    Default is 'q'.  
    - Operation mode:  
    'any'   - will return after any character or left click is  
    pressed (default).  
    'key'   - will return after any character is pressed.  
    'mouse' - will return after mouse left click is pressed.  
    Output : - X/RA or Galactic longitude. If celestial coordinates, the  
    return the result in radians.  
    - Y/Dec or Galactic latitude. If celestial coordinates, the  
    return the result in radians.  
    - Pixel value.  
    - Cell array of string of clicked events.  
    '<1>' for mouse left click.  
    Required: XPA - http://hea-www.harvard.edu/RD/xpa/index.html  
    Tested : Matlab 7.0  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Feb 2007  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [X,Y,V]=ds9.ginput(3,'fk5');    return the WCS RA/Dec position  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.ginput('icrs','q','key');  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.ginput('icrs',10,'mouse');  
    [X,Y,V,Key] = ds9.ginout('image',2,'any');  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### header

Description: Display FITS header dialaog


    
    Description: Display FITS header dialaog  
    Input  : - Parameters to fits header dialaog.  
    Default is ''.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.header(1)  
    ds9.header('save',1,'foo.txt')  
    ds9.header('close')  
    Reliable: 2  


### iline

Interactively plot a line Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively plot a line in ds9 between two points defined by mouse left clicks. Also return the interpolated values in the image


    
    Interactively plot a line  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Interactively plot a line in ds9 between two  
    points defined by mouse left clicks.  
    Also return the interpolated values in the image  
    along the line.  
    Input  : * Any of the additional marker type parameters of  
    the ds9.plot function. I.e., the arguments  
    following the X,Y coordinates.  
    Output : - X coordinates of start and end points.  
    - Y coordinates of start and end points.  
    - Interpolated image values along the line.  
    - X coordinates along the line.  
    - Y coordinates along the line.  
    Example: [X,Y,ValLine,LineX,LineY]=ds9.iline;  
    Reliabel: 2  
      


### imark

Interactive plot symbols Package: @ds9 Description: Interactive plot symbols in right click coordinates. Use 'q' click to abort. Click 'c' to switch to circle plotting, and


    
    Interactive plot symbols  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Interactive plot symbols in right click  
    coordinates. Use 'q' click to abort.  
    Click 'c' to switch to circle plotting, and  
    's' for box plotting.  
    Input  : * Any of the additional marker type parameters of  
    the ds9.plot function. I.e., the arguments  
    following the X,Y coordinates.  
    Output : - Vector of clicked X positions.  
    - Vector of clicked Y positions.  
    - Vector of values in clicked positions.  
    Example: ds9.imark;  
    ds9.imark('Marker','s','Size',[10 10 45]);  
    ds9.imark('rs');  
    ds9.imark('rs','size',[20 20 0]);  
    ds9.imark('ro','Text','Object X');  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### imexam

ds9 image examination utility Package: @ds9 Description: Interactive image examination in ds9.


    
    ds9 image examination utility  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Interactive image examination in ds9.  
    Input  : - Optional image. This may be a SIM object  
    containing a catalog.  
    If not given then read the image from the current  
    ds9 frame.  
    * Arbitrary number of ...,keyword,value,... pairs.  
    The following keywords are available:  
    'Plot' - Display plot. Default is true.  
    'PlotPar - Cell array of additional arguments to  
    pass to the plot command.  
    Default is {}.  
    'AperRad' - Vector of aperture radii in which to  
    calculate aperture photometry.  
    Default is [2 4 8 12 16].  
    'Annulus' - Aperture photometry background annulus  
    [inner outer] radius.  
    Default is [16 22].  
    'ZP'    - Photometry zero point. Default is 22.  
    'SemiLen' - Cuts line semi-length [pix].  
    Default is 15.  
    'MeanFun' - Radial plots annular mean function  
    handle. Default is @mean.  
    'Radius' - Radial plots radius [pix].  
    Default is 7.  
    'Sigma'  - PSF sigma guess for first moment  
    estimation [pix]. Default is 1.5.  
    'MaxIter' - Maximum number of centering  
    iterations. Default is 3.  
    'BackPar' - Cell array of additional arguments to  
    pass to the SIM/background function.  
    Default is {'Block',[128 128]}.  
    'ExtractionFun' - Source extraction function  
    handle. Default is @mextractor.  
    'ExtractionFunPar' - Cell array of additional  
    arguments to pass to the source  
    extraction function.  
    'SearchRad' - Nearest object catalog search  
    radius [pix]. Default is 50.  
    'Field' - SIM field from which to extract cut  
    values. Default is 'Im'.  
    Output : - A structure array (element per click) with the  
    retrieved numerical information.  
      


### ipoly

Interactively plot a polygon Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively plot a polygon. Verteces are defined by mouse or keybord clicks. 'q' to finish and abort.


    
    Interactively plot a polygon  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Interactively plot a polygon. Verteces are  
    defined by mouse or keybord clicks.  
    'q' to finish and abort.  
    Input  : * Any of the additional marker type parameters of  
    the ds9.plot function. I.e., the arguments  
    following the X,Y coordinates.  
    Output : - X coordinates of verteces.  
    - Y coordinates of verteces.  
    Example: [x,y]=ds9.ipoly;  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### isopen

Check if ds9 is open (linux/mac only) Package: @ds9


    
    Check if ds9 is open (linux/mac only)  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : null  
    Output : A logical flag indicating if ds9 is open for the  
    user.  
    Example: ds9.isopen  
    Reliable: 2  


### line_lt

Plot multiple lines based on X,Y,length,theta Package: @ds9 Description: Plot multiple lines based on X,Y,length,theta


    
    Plot multiple lines based on X,Y,length,theta  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Plot multiple lines based on X,Y,length,theta  
    Input  : - Vector of X starting points.  
    - Vector of Y starting points.  
    - Vector of line lengths.  
    - Vector of line angles [deg] measured from X-axis.  
    * Additional parameters to pass to ds9.write_region  
    function. The first argument may be a plot-like  
    color indicator.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.line_lt(400,1900,100,10)  
    ds9.line_lt(400,1900,100,10,'g','Width',3)  
    ds9.line_lt([400,450],[1900,1910],[100,200],[10,45])  
      


### line_xy

Plot a broken line Package: @ds9 Description: Plot a broken line (curve) in ds9 image.


    
    Plot a broken line  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Plot a broken line (curve) in ds9 image.  
    Input  : - Vector of X.  
    - Vector of Y.  
    * Additional parameters to pass to ds9.write_region  
    function. The first argument may be a plot-like  
    color indicator.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.line_xy([356 400],[2000 2100],'Color','green')  
    ds9.line_xy([356 400],[2000 2100],'r')  
    ds9.line_xy([356 400],[2000 2100],'w','width',3)  
    ds9.line_xy([360,400,500],[2000 2010 2100])  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### load

Load a FITS image into ds9 frame Package: @ds9 Description: Load a FITS image into ds9 frame


    
    Load a FITS image into ds9 frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Load a FITS image into ds9 frame  
    Input  : - FITS file name. This is either a fits file name  
    in the current directory or a full path to the  
    file name.  
    - Frame number.  
    Default is 'next'.  
    Output : - Current frame number  
    - Current fits file name  
    Author : Eran Ofek  
      


### load1

Load a FITS image into ds9 frame number 1 Package: @ds9 Description: Load a FITS image into ds9 frame number 1


    
    Load a FITS image into ds9 frame number 1  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Load a FITS image into ds9 frame number 1  
    Input  : - Fits file name  
    Output : - Current frame number  
    - Current fits file name  
    Reliable: 2  


### load_region

load regions file name into current ds9 frame Package: @ds9 Description: load regions file name into current ds9 frame.


    
    load regions file name into current ds9 frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: load regions file name into current ds9 frame.  
    Input  : - FileName. If file name does not contains the  
    full path then assume the file is in the current  
    directory.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.load_region('A.reg')  
    Reliable: 2  
      
    check if FileName contains directory name  


### lock_wcs

Lock all images WCS to current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Lock all images WCS to current frame.


    
    Lock all images WCS to current frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Lock all images WCS to current frame.  
    Input  : - true|false. If not given than toggle.  
    Output : null  
      


### lock_xy

Lock all images x/y coordinayes to current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Lock all images x/y coordinayes to current frame.


    
    Lock all images x/y coordinayes to current frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Lock all images x/y coordinayes to current frame.  
    Input  : - true|false. If not given than toggle.  
    Output : null  
      


### match_colorbar

Match the intensity colorbar of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the intensity colorbar of all frames to the current frame.


    
    Match the intensity colorbar of all frames to the current frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Match the intensity colorbar of all frames to  
    the current frame.  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
      


### match_scale

Match the intensity scale of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the intensity scale of all frames to the current frame.


    
    Match the intensity scale of all frames to the current frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Match the intensity scale of all frames to the  
    current frame.  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
      


### match_scalelimits

Match the intensity scalelimits of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the intensity scalelimits of all frames to the current frame.


    
    Match the intensity scalelimits of all frames to the current frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Match the intensity scalelimits of all frames to  
    the current frame.  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
      


### match_wcs

Match the WCS coordinates of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the WCS coordinates of all frames to the current frame.


    
    Match the WCS coordinates of all frames to the current frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Match the WCS coordinates of all frames to the  
    current frame.  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
      


### match_xy

Match the image coordinates of all frames to the current frame Package: @ds9 Description: Match the image coordinates of all frames to the current frame.


    
    Match the image coordinates of all frames to the current frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Match the image coordinates of all frames to the  
    current frame.  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
      


### mode

Set ds9 mode Package: @ds9


    
    Set ds9 mode  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : - ds9 mode.  
    none|region|crosshair|colorbar|pan|zoom|rotate|catalog|examine.  
    Default is 'region'.  
    Output : null  
      


### nearcat

Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object Package: @ds9 Description: Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object to the clicked position.


    
    Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object  
    to the clicked position.  
    Input  : - A SIM or AstCat object.  
    - Search radius. Default is 100 (in units of queried  
    column).  
    * Arbitrary number of pairs of ...,key,val,...  
    arguments. The following keywords are available:  
    'ColX'  - Cell array of possible keywords  
    containing the X coordinate column name  
    on which to search.  
    The first existing column name will be  
    used.  
    Default is  
    {'XWIN_IMAGE','X','ALPHAWIN_J2000','RA'}  
    'ColY'  - Like 'ColX' but for the Y coordinate.  
    Default is  
    {'YWIN_IMAGE','Y','DELTAWIN_J2000','Dec'}  
    'ColUnits' - Units corresponding to 'ColX'.  
    Default is {'pix','pix','deg','ra'}.  
    'SrcFun'  - Source extraction function to use.  
    Default is @mextractor  
    'SrcPar'  - Cell array of additional parameters  
    to pass to the source extraction  
    function. Default is {}.  
    'Verbose' - Default is true.  
    Output : - AstCat object containing the nearest source to  
    clicked position.  
    - Distance to nearest source [rad] or [pix].  
    - Units of RA/Dec (and distance).  
    - RA or X coordinate of clicked position.  
    - Dec or Y coordinate of clicked position.  
    - Value at clicked position.  
    See also: ds9.nearcat  
    Example: [Cat,MinDist,RA,Dec]=ds9.nearcat(Sim,100);  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      


### nearestcat

Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object Package: @ds9 Description: Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object to the clicked position.


    
    Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Get the nearest source in a SIM/AstCat object  
    to the clicked position.  
    Input  : - A SIM or AstCat object.  
    * Arbitrary number of pairs of ...,key,val,...  
    arguments. The following keywords are available:  
    'ColX'  - Cell array of possible keywords  
    containing the X coordinate column name  
    on which to search.  
    The first existing column name will be  
    used.  
    Default is  
    {'XWIN_IMAGE','X','ALPHAWIN_J2000','RA'}  
    'ColY'  - Like 'ColX' but for the Y coordinate.  
    Default is  
    {'YWIN_IMAGE','Y','DELTAWIN_J2000','Dec'}  
    'ColUnits' - Units corresponding to 'ColX'.  
    Default is {'pix','pix','deg','ra'}.  
    'SrcFun'  - Source extraction function to use.  
    Default is @mextractor  
    'SrcPar'  - Cell array of additional parameters  
    to pass to the source extraction  
    function. Default is {}.  
    'SearchRad' - Search radius [rad] or [pix].  
    Units defined by availability of column  
    in the catalog.  
    If empty then return only the nearest  
    source.  
    Default is empty.  
    'Verbose' - Default is true.  
    Output : - AstCat object containing the nearest source to  
    clicked position.  
    - Distance to nearest source [rad] or [pix].  
    - Units of RA/Dec (and distance).  
    - RA or X coordinate of clicked position.  
    - Dec or Y coordinate of clicked position.  
    - Value at clicked position.  
    See also: ds9.nearcat  
    Example: [Cat,MinDist,RA,Dec]=ds9.nearestcat(Sim);  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### nedlink

Open NED link for clicked position Package: @ds9 Description: Click on a position in an image displayed in ds9 and this program will open the NED coordinate search web page for the coordinates.


    
    Open NED link for clicked position  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Click on a position in an image displayed in ds9 and this  
    program will open the NED coordinate search web page for the  
    coordinates.  
    Input  : - Broweser type:  
    'browser' - existing system browser (default).  
    'new'     - Matlab internal browser.  
    Output : - J2000.0 RA of position [radians].  
    - J2000.0 Dec of position [radians].  
    - Link to NED search page.  
    Required: XPA - http://hea-www.harvard.edu/saord/xpa/  
    Tested : Matlab 7.11  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    May 2011  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [RA,Dec,Link]=ds9.sdssnavi;  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### open

Open ds9 dispaly window if not exist already and set mode to region Package: @ds9


    
    Open ds9 dispaly window if not exist already and set mode to region  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
    Problems: The command ds9 is not recognized by the bash interpreter, try adding an alias  
    to the bash profile using ‘vim .bash_profile’ adding the following line to the  
    profile ‘alias ds9="open -a /Applications/SAOImageDS9.app/Contents/MacOS/ds9"  
    Example: ds9.open  
    Reliable: 2  


### orient

Set the x/y orientation of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the x/y orientation of an image in ds9


    
    Set the x/y orientation of an image in ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Set the x/y orientation of an image in ds9  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of arguments to pass to the ds9  
    orient command.  
    Default is 'none'.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.orient('x')  
    ds9.orient('xy')  
    Reliable: 2  


### pan

Set the pan (cursor location) of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the pan (cursor location) of an image in ds9


    
    Set the pan (cursor location) of an image in ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Set the pan (cursor location) of an image in ds9  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of arguments to pass to the ds9  
    pan command.  
    Default is 'to 0 0 image'.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.pan('200 200 image')  
    Reliable: 2  


### plot

Generate and plot a region file from a list of coordinates Package: @ds9 Description: Generate and plot a region file from a list of coordinates. This is like the function ds9.write_region with


    
    Generate and plot a region file from a list of coordinates  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Generate and plot a region file from a list of  
    coordinates.  
    This is like the function ds9.write_region with  
    the exception that it also load the region file  
    into the current frame.  
    By default this program deletes the region file  
    name after plotting. Use ds9.write_region to  
    create the file.  
    Input  : * Parameters to pass to ds9.write_region.m.  
    See ds9.write_region.m for details.  
    Alternatively, the second argument may be a string  
    containing the marker and color  
    (e.g., 'yo' - yellow circle; 'ks' - black square).  
    Alternatively, the first argument is X coordinate,  
    the second is Y coordinate and the rest as before.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.plot([1000 1000]);  
    ds9.plot([1020 1010],'Marker','s','Size',[10 10 45]);  
    ds9.plot([900 900],'rs');  
    ds9.plot(950,950);  
    ds9.plot(950,950,'rs','size',[20 20 0]);  
    ds9.plot(1000,1020,'ro','Text','Object X');  
    ds9.plot(Sim);    plot circles around AstCat object  
    Reliable: 2  


### plotXY

Example: ds9.plotXY([X, Y],[], 'wo','MarkerSize',18,'Marker','s', 'CooType','icrs'); ds9.plotXY(AstroCatalog, 'ro', 'MarkerSize',18, 'ColNameX','X','ColNameY','Y'); ds9.plotXY(AstroCatalog, 'go', 'MarkerSize',18, 'CooType','sphere');


    
      
    Example:  
    ds9.plotXY([X, Y],[], 'wo','MarkerSize',18,'Marker','s', 'CooType','icrs');  
    ds9.plotXY(AstroCatalog, 'ro', 'MarkerSize',18, 'ColNameX','X','ColNameY','Y');  
    ds9.plotXY(AstroCatalog, 'go', 'MarkerSize',18, 'CooType','sphere');  
      


### plotc

Generate and plot a region file from a list of celestial coordinates Package: @ds9


    
    Generate and plot a region file from a list of celestial coordinates  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : * see ds9.plot(...,'Coo','fk5')  
      


### psprint

Print a postscript file into current directory Package: @ds9 Description: Print a postscript file into current directory.


    
    Print a postscript file into current directory  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Print a postscript file into current directory.  
    Input  : - PS file name.  
    - Resolution. Default is 150.  
    - Color. Default is 'cmyk'.  
    - PS level. Default is 2.  
    Output : null  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### read2AstroImage

Save a ds9 frame in an AstroImage object Package: @ds9 Description: Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object


    
    Save a ds9 frame in an AstroImage object  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object  
    Input  : null.  
    Output : - An AstroImage object.  
    Eaxmple: S=ds9.read2AstroImage;  
    Reliable: 2  
      
    Read entire image from ds9  


### read2fits

Save a ds9 frame to FITS image Package: @ds9 Description: Save a ds9 frame to FITS image


    
    Save a ds9 frame to FITS image  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Save a ds9 frame to FITS image  
    Input  : - FITS file name to save.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.tofits('try.fits');  
    Reliable:  
      
    Read entire image from ds9  


### read2sim

Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object Package: @ds9 Description: Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object


    
    Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Save a ds9 frame in a SIM object  
    Input  : null.  
    Output : - A SIM object.  
    Eaxmple: S=ds9.read2sim;  
    Reliable: 2  
      
    Read entire image from ds9  


### rotate

Set the rotation of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the rotation of an image in ds9


    
    Set the rotation of an image in ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Set the rotation of an image in ds9  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of arguments to pass to the ds9  
    rotate command.  
    Default is ''.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.rotate('to',45)  
    Reliable: 2  


### save_region

Save regions into a file Package: @ds9 Description: Save regions into a file.


    
    Save regions into a file  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Save regions into a file.  
    Input  : FileName. If file name does not contains the  
    full path then save it in the current  
    directory. Default is 'ds9.reg'.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.save_region  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### scale

Set the intensity scale of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the intensity scale of an image in ds9


    
    Set the intensity scale of an image in ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Set the intensity scale of an image in ds9  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of arguments to pass to the ds9  
    scale command.  
    Default is 'mode zscale'.  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.scale('linear')  
    ds9.scale('log',100)  
    ds9.scale('log 100');  
    ds9.scale('limits',1520,1900)  
    Reliable: 2  


### sdsscat

Get SDSS catalog near clicked position Package: @ds9 Description: Get SDSS catalog near clicked position


    
    Get SDSS catalog near clicked position  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Get SDSS catalog near clicked position  
    Input  : - Search radius [arcsec]. Default is 10.  
    Output : - Catalog containing SDSS sources near clicked  
    position.  
    - Clicked J2000.0 RA coordinate [rad].  
    - Clicked J2000.0 Dec coordinate [rad].  
    Example: [RA,Dec,Cat]=ds9.sdsscat;  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### sdssnavi

Open SDSS navigator for clicked position Package: @ds9 Description: Click on a position in an image displayed in ds9 and this program will open the SDSS navigator web page for the coordinates.


    
    Open SDSS navigator for clicked position  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Click on a position in an image displayed in ds9 and this  
    program will open the SDSS navigator web page for the  
    coordinates.  
    Input  : - Broweser type:  
    'browser' - existing system browser (default).  
    'new'     - Matlab internal browser.  
    Output : - J2000.0 RA of position [radians].  
    - J2000.0 Dec of position [radians].  
    - Link to SDSS navigator.  
    Required: XPA - http://hea-www.harvard.edu/saord/xpa/  
    Tested : Matlab 7.11  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    May 2011  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: [RA,Dec,Link]=ds9.sdssnavi;  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### simval

Interactively get values from SIM images Package: @ds9 Description: Interactively get values from SIM images (image, background, error, weight and mask) at clicked positions. Click 'q' to abort.


    
    Interactively get values from SIM images  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Interactively get values from SIM images (image,  
    background, error, weight and mask) at clicked  
    positions. Click 'q' to abort.  
    Input  : - A single element SIM object.  
    Output : - A structure array with the results: clicked  
    positions and pixel values.  
    Example: Res=simval(Sim);  
    Reliable:  
      


### single

Set to single image display mode Package: @ds9


    
    Set to single image display mode  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.single  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### supported

Return true if ds9 is supported (currently only Linux and Mac)


    
    Return true if ds9 is supported (currently only Linux and Mac)  


### system

Construct and execute an xpa command Package: @ds9


    
    Construct and execute an xpa command  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : - String to execute. The string may include any  
    special characters (e.g., s, d) that will be  
    populated by the additional parameters.  
    * Arbitrary number of additional parameters that  
    will populate the s d like format.  
    Output : - Answer  
    Example: ds9.system('xpaset -p ds9 frame frameno d',FrameNumber);  
    Reliable: 2  


### text

plot text to ds9 current frame Package: @ds9 Description: plot text to ds9 current frame in image coordinates position.


    
    plot text to ds9 current frame  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: plot text to ds9 current frame in image  
    coordinates position.  
    Input  : - Image coordinate X position (pixels), or J2000.0  
    R.A. (deg or sexagesimal string). If string then  
    will set 'Coo' to 'fk5' and assumes that also Dec  
    is given in sexagesimal format.  
    - Image coordinate Y position (pixels), or J2000.0  
    Dec. (deg or sexagesimal string).  
    - Text.  
    * Arbitrary number of ...,key,val,... pairs.  
    The following keywords are available:  
    'Color'   - A string or a cell array of strings  
    of marker colors  
    ('red'|'blue'|'green'|'black'|  
    'white'|...).  
    Default is 'red'.  
    'Width'   - A scalar or a vector of markers  
    width. Default is 1.  
    'Font'    - Font type. Default is 'helvetica'.  
    'FontSize'- Font size. Default is 16.  
    'FontStyle'-Font style. Default is 'normal'.  
    'Coo'     - Coordinate system: 'image'|'fk5'.  
    Default is 'image'.  
      
    Output : null  
    see also: ds9.plot, ds9.write_region  
    Example: ds9.text(700,900,'Hello');  
    ds9.text(700,980.1,'Hello','color','cyan');  
    ds9.text(149.41455,69.758364,'Star','Coo','fk5');  deg  
    ds9.text('9:56:31.559','+69:49:27.60','Object','Color','blue')  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
      
      


### tile

Set the tile the display mode of ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the tile the display mode of ds9.


    
    Set the tile the display mode of ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Set the tile the display mode of ds9.  
    Input  : - Either a string to pass to the tile command,  
    or this is a vector of the number of columns and  
    rows in the tile display (i.e., layout command)  
    Alternatively a third element may be provided with  
    the grid gap (in pixels).  
    Default is [3,2].  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.tile([3 3 10])  
    ds9.tile('grid direction x')  
      


### unitTest

unitTest for ds9


    
    unitTest for ds9  


### url

Load FITS file from a URL Package: @ds9 Description: Load FITS file from a URL.


    
    Load FITS file from a URL  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Load FITS file from a URL.  
    Input  : - URL string.  
    - Frame number.  
    Default is 'next'.  
    Output : - Frame number.  
    Example: ds9.url(URL);  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### write_region

Write a regions file for a list of coordinates and properties Package: @ds9 Description: Write a regions file for a list of coordinates and properties.


    
    Write a regions file for a list of coordinates and properties  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Write a regions file for a list of coordinates  
    and properties.  
    Input  : - A two column matrix of coordinates [X,Y] or  
    [RA,Dec] (degrees), or an AstCat object.  
    The AstCat object coordinates column names are  
    defined by the 'ColName...' argumenents.  
    For RA/Dec units must be degrees.  
    * Arbitrary number of ...,key,val,... pairs.  
    The following keywords are available:  
    'FileName' - Output region file name.  
    Default is tempname.  
    'Append'   - Append region file to an existing  
    region file. Default is false.  
    'Coo'      - Coordinates type: 'image'|'fk5'.  
    Default is 'image' (i.e., pixels).  
    'Units'    - If 'Coo' is 'fk5' than this specify  
    if the input coordinates are in 'deg'  
    or 'rad'. Default is 'deg'.  
    'Marker'   - A string or a cell array of strings  
    of markers type.  
    Options are: 'circle'|'circ'|'o'  
    'box'|'s'  
    'ellipse'|'e'  
    'line'|'l'  
    'vector'|'v'  
    'polygon'|'p'  
    Default is 'circle'.  
    'Color'   - A string or a cell array of strings  
    of marker colors  
    ('red'|'blue'|'green'|'black'|  
    'white'|...).  
    Default is 'red'.  
    'Width'   - A scalar or a vector of markers  
    width. Default is 1.  
    'Size'    - Size array. Either one row, or a row  
    per coordinate. Default is 10.  
    Note that the required number of  
    columns in size depands on the marker  
    type.  
    Following attributes are needed:  
    For 'circle':  [Radius]  
    For 'box':     [Width,Height]  
    For 'ellipse': [Major axis, Minor axis]  
    For 'vector':  [Length,PA]  
    For 'line':    [StartX,StartY,EndX,EndY]  
    For 'polygon': The coordinates are  
    used as the polygon verteces.  
    Default is 10.  
    'Text'    - Text to plot with marker.  
    Default is ''.  
    'Font'    - Font type. Default is 'helvetica'.  
    'FontSize'- Font size. Default is 16.  
    'FontStyle'-Font style. Default is 'normal'.  
    'ColNameX'- Cell array of possible column names  
    of X coordinate in AstCat object.  
    If the first input in an AstCat  
    object then the first exitsing column  
    name will be used.  
    Default is  
    {'XWIN_IMAGE','X','X_IMAGE'}.  
    'ColNameY'- Like 'ColNameX', but for the Y  
    coordinate.  
    Default is  
    {'YWIN_IMAGE','Y','Y_IMAGE'}.  
    'ColNameRA'-Like 'ColNameX', but for the RA  
    coordinate.  
    Default is  
    {'ALPHAWIN_IMAGE','RA'}.  
    'ColNameDec'-Like 'ColNameX', but for the Dec  
    coordinate.  
    Default is  
    {'DELTAWIN_IMAGE','DEC'}.  
    Output : - Region file name.  
    See also: ds9.plot  
    Example: FileName=write_region(Cat);  
    write_region([X,Y],'Marker','s','Color','cyan')  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### xpaget

Execute an xpaget command Package: @ds9


    
    Execute an xpaget command  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : - The command to follow the 'xpaget ds9'.  
    Output : - Return output.  
    Reliable: 2  


### xpahelp

Open the XPA command help web page Package: @ds9


    
    Open the XPA command help web page  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : null  
    Output : null  
    Example: ds9.xpahelp  
    Reliable: 2  
      


### xpaset

Execute an xpaset command Package: @ds9


    
    Execute an xpaset command  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : - The command to follow the 'xpaset -p ds9'.  
    Output : null  
    Reliable: 2  


### xy2coo

Convert RA/Dec to X/Y (image) using ds9 tools Package: @ds9


    
    Convert RA/Dec to X/Y (image) using ds9 tools  
    Package: @ds9  
    Input  : - X  
    - Y  
    - Output coordinate type: {'fk4'|'fk5'|'icrs'}.  
    Default is 'icrs.  
    Output : - RA [deg].  
    - Dec [deg].  
      


### zoom

Set the zoom of an image in ds9 Package: @ds9 Description: Set the zoom of an image in ds9


    
    Set the zoom of an image in ds9  
    Package: @ds9  
    Description: Set the zoom of an image in ds9  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of arguments to pass to the ds9  
    zoom command. If the first argument is a number  
    than the word "to" will be added (absolute zoom).  
    Default is 'to to 1', unless nargin>0, and in this  
    case will only return the zoom value.  
    Output : - Zoom vale.  
    Example: ds9.zoom(2,4)  
    ds9.zoom('in')  
    Reliable: 2  
      


