# Class: Installer



    
    Installer class for AstroPack aux data sets  
    In addition to the GitHub distribution, some additional datasets are  
    available, and these datasets can be installed using this utility.  
      
    The datasets and their properties are listed in the config/Installer.yml  
    file.  
      
    Author : Eran Ofek (Sep 2021)  
    Examples:  
    I = Installer;   create installer object  
    I.seeAvailableData       print a table of all available datasets and description and size  
    I.install                install all data sets [very large!]  
    I.install({'Time','MinorPlanets'});  
    I.install({'GAIA_SpecTemplate'});  install specific datasets  
    I.install({'+cats'});  install specific datasets (and open tar file)  
      
      
      
      

### Functions List

    Installer - constructor for the Installre class (a utility class for AstroPack installation
    getDataDir - Get data directory name DataName of data directory as appear in Insataller/seeAvailableData
    getFilesInDataDir - Return all file names in directory associated with DataName
    install - Install AstroPack data directories from AstroPack repository
    installSingle - Install single DataName (utility function for install)
    prep_cats - Prepare interface functions for the catalogs in the data directory Package: VO.search Description: Prepare interface functions for the catalogs in the data directory
    readElementsFileJPL - Read JPL orbital elements file
    readIERS_EOP - Read all IERS Earth Orientation File 'finals2000A.data.csv' documentation: http://hpiers.obspm.fr/eoppc/bul/bulb/explanatory.html http://maia.usno.navy.mil http://www.iers.org/nn_10968/IERS/EN/DataProducts/EarthOrientationData/eop.html?__nnn=true x_pole/y_pole:  Celestial Ephemeris Pole (CEP) relative to the International Reference Pole (IRP) are defined as x and y
    search - Search data name in Installer object
    seeAvailableData - print a table of available data sets Example: I = Installer; I.seeAvailableData
    unitTest - 

### Installer

constructor for the Installre class (a utility class for AstroPack installation


    
    constructor for the Installre class (a utility class for  
    AstroPack installation  
      


### getDataDir

Get data directory name DataName of data directory as appear in Insataller/seeAvailableData


    
    Get data directory name  
    DataName of data directory as appear in Insataller/seeAvailableData  
    Input  : - Installre object.  
    - DataName  
    Output : - Directory name. Return empty if not found.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Sep 2021)  
    Example: I = Insatller; I.getDataDir('Time')  
      


### getFilesInDataDir

Return all file names in directory associated with DataName


    
    Return all file names in directory associated with DataName  
    Input  : - Installre object.  
    - DataName  
    Output : - dir-function like output of all the file names in  
    the data directory. Directories are removed.  
    - Data dir containing the files.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Sep 2021)  
    Example: I = Insatller; I.getFilesInDataDir('SpecGalQSO')  
      


### install

Install AstroPack data directories from AstroPack repository


    
    Install AstroPack data directories from AstroPack repository  
    Input  : - An Installer object.  
    - A DataName to install (e.g., 'GAIA_SpecTemplate'),  
    or a cell array of data names. If empty, install  
    all data names in ConfigStruct.  
    Default is empty.  
    * ...,key,val,...  
    'DataName' - A DataName to install (e.g., 'GAIA_SpecTemplate'),  
    or a cell array of data names. If empty, install  
    all data names in ConfigStruct.  
    Default is empty.  
    'Delete' - A logical indicating if to delete  
    data before installation.  
    Default is true.  
    'Npwget' - Number of parallel wget. Default is 10.  
    'wgetPars' - A cell array of additional wget  
    arguments. Default is '-q -o /dev/null -U Mozilla no-check-certificate'.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Sep 2021)  
    Example: I = Installer;  
    I.install    install all  
    I(5).install  install the 5th data name: PicklesStellarSpec  
    I.install('Time');  install the Time data name  
    I.install({'Time','MinorPlanets'})  
      
      


### installSingle

Install single DataName (utility function for install)


    
    Install single DataName (utility function for install)  
    Input  : - A structure with the DataName, SubDir, URL,  
    SearchFile fields fot the data to install  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Sep 2021)  
      


### prep_cats

Prepare interface functions for the catalogs in the data directory Package: VO.search Description: Prepare interface functions for the catalogs in the data directory


    
    Prepare interface functions for the catalogs in the data directory  
    Package: VO.search  
    Description: Prepare interface functions for the catalogs in the data directory  
    Input  : * Arbitrary number of pairs if ...,keyword,value,...  
    The possible keywords are possible:  
    'Dir' - Directory in which the data catalogs resides.  
    The directory tree should be stored like a package.  
    each directory start with "+".  
    Default is '~/matlab/data/+datacats/';  
    'Exten' - Cell array of file extensions to map.  
    Default is {'mat'}.  
    Output : null  
    License: GNU general public license version 3  
    By : Eran O. Ofek                    Feb 2017  
    URL : http://weizmann.ac.il/home/eofek/matlab/  
    Example: Installer.prep_cats  
      


### readElementsFileJPL

Read JPL orbital elements file


    
    Read JPL orbital elements file  
    Input  : - File name.  
    The file name is assumed to be in the data/  
    directory as indicated in the Installer.yml config  
    file.  
    - File type: 'comet' | 'number' | 'unnum'  
    If empty, will automatically figure out the file  
    yppe. Default is [].  
    Output : - Table with orbital elements.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Sep 2021)  
    Example: T = Installer.readElementsFileJPL('ELEMENTS.COMET');  
    T = Installer.readElementsFileJPL('ELEMENTS.NUMBR');  
    T = Installer.readElementsFileJPL('ELEMENTS.UNNUM');  
      


### readIERS_EOP

Read all IERS Earth Orientation File 'finals2000A.data.csv' documentation: http://hpiers.obspm.fr/eoppc/bul/bulb/explanatory.html http://maia.usno.navy.mil http://www.iers.org/nn_10968/IERS/EN/DataProducts/EarthOrientationData/eop.html?__nnn=true x_pole/y_pole:  Celestial Ephemeris Pole (CEP) relative to the International Reference Pole (IRP) are defined as x and y


    
    Read all IERS Earth Orientation File 'finals2000A.data.csv'  
    documentation: http://hpiers.obspm.fr/eoppc/bul/bulb/explanatory.html  
    http://maia.usno.navy.mil  
    http://www.iers.org/nn_10968/IERS/EN/DataProducts/EarthOrientationData/eop.html?__nnn=true  
    x_pole/y_pole:  Celestial Ephemeris Pole (CEP) relative to the International Reference Pole (IRP) are defined as x and y  
    dPsi/dEps - offset relative to IAU 1980 Theory of Nutation  
    Utilities to use these files are available in the  
    celestial.time package.  
    Input  : - File indices to read [1 2 3]. If not provided read  
    all files.  
    Output : - The 'finals2000A table including  
    UT1-UTC, X-pole, Y-pole, dPsi, dEpsilon, etc.  
    from 1992 till ~3 months predictions into the future.  
    - The EOP_14_C04_IAU1980_one_file_1962-now.txt file.  
    Similar to finals, but from 1962 till now.  
    - The EOP_C01_IAU2000_1846-now.txt file.  
    First 6 columns from 1846 till now, including  
    UT1-TAI.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Sep 2021)  
    Example: [T1, T2, T3] = Installer.readIERS_EOP  
      


### search

Search data name in Installer object


    
    Search data name in Installer object  
    Input  : - An Installer object  
    - data name to search (e.g., 'Time')  
    ir a cell array of data names.  
    Output : - Index of found data name in Installer object  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Sep 2021)  
    Example: Ind = search(I, 'MinorPlanets')  
    Ind = search(I, {'Time','MinorPlanets'})  
      


### seeAvailableData

print a table of available data sets Example: I = Installer; I.seeAvailableData


    
    print a table of available data sets  
    Example: I = Installer; I.seeAvailableData  
      


### unitTest




    
      


