# Class: MaskImage



    
    BaseImage handle class - all images inherits from this class  
    Package: @BaseImage  
    Description:  
    Tested : Matlab R2018a  
    Author : Eran O. Ofek (Mar 2021)  
    Dependencies: @convert, @celestial  
    Example :  
    Reliable: 2  
      
      
      
      

### Functions List

    bitStat - Example: Stat = Bias.MaskData.bitStat
    bitwise_cutouts - Apply bitwise operator to a cutouts
    findBit - find pixels with some specific mask-bit open
    maskSet - Set the value of a bit in a bit mask
    unitTest - 

### bitStat

Example: Stat = Bias.MaskData.bitStat


    
      
    Example: Stat = Bias.MaskData.bitStat  
      


### bitwise_cutouts

Apply bitwise operator to a cutouts


    
    Apply bitwise operator to a cutouts  
    Input  : - A single-element MaskImage object.  
    - A two column matrix of [X, Y] positions.  
    Positions will be rounded.  
    - Operator: ['or'] | 'and'  
    * ...,key,val,...  
    'HalfSize' - Cutout half size (actual size will be  
    1+2*HalfSize. Default is 3.  
    'CutAlgo' - Algorithm: ['mex'] | 'wmat'.  
    'IsCircle' - If true then will pad each cutout  
    with NaN outside the HalfSize radius.  
    Default is false.  
    'DataProp' - Data property from which to extract  
    the cutouts. Default is 'Image'.  
    Output : - A column vector of function output (bitwise or/and  
    on all numbers in cutout) per each cutout.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Jul 2021)  
    Example: IC=MaskImage({uint32(ones(100,100))});  
    Result = bitwise_cutouts(IC, [1 1; 2 2; 10 10; 30 30], 'or')  
      


### findBit

find pixels with some specific mask-bit open


    
    find pixels with some specific mask-bit open  
    Input  : - A MaskImage object (multi elements supported).  
    - A cell array of bit names, or a decimal number  
    representing several bits.  
    * ...,key,val,...  
    'Method' - Indicating if to look for pixels in  
    which all the requested bits are on  
    ('all'), or one or more of the requested  
    bits are on ('any').  
    Default is 'all'.  
    'OutType' - ['mat'] | 'ImageComponent'.  
    Output is a matrix of logicals (works only  
    if the MaskImage is a single element), or  
    an ImageComponent of images of logicals.  
    'DataProp' - Data prop on which to operate, and in  
    which to store the results.  
    Default is 'Image'.  
    Output : - An array of logicals which size equal to the  
    MaksImage 'Image' property.  
    Each element of the array indicating if the  
    specified bits, in each pixel position, are open.  
    - A two column matrix of [X,Y] pixel positions in  
    which the specified bits are open.  
    Provided only for the last image in the  
    MaskImage object.  
    - A vector of indices of the pixels in which the  
    specified bits are open.  
    Provided only for the last image in the  
    MaskImage object.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (Apr 2021)  
    Example:  
      
      


### maskSet

Set the value of a bit in a bit mask


    
    Set the value of a bit in a bit mask  
    Input  : - An ImageMask Object.  
    - A matrix of logical, with the same size as the  
    Image in the ImageMask, in which values which are  
    true will be set.  
    Alternatively, this can be a vector of indices.  
    - Bit name, or bit index (start from 0), to set.  
    - Value to set (0 | 1). Default is 1.  
    * ...,key,val,...  
    'DefBitDict' - Default bit dictionary if  
    not exist. Default is  
    BitDictionary('BitMask.Image.Default').  
    'CreateNewObj' - A logical indicating if to copy  
    the input object. Default is false.  
    Output : - An ImageMaks object.  
    Author : Eran Ofek (May 2021)  
    Example:  
    MI=MaskImage;  
    MI.Dict=BitDictionary('BitMask.Image.Default')  
    Flag = false(3,3); Flag(1,2)=true;  
    Result = MI.maskSet(Flag,'Saturated')  
    Result = MI.maskSet(Flag,'Streak')  
      


### unitTest




    


